If you are new, please read our posting guidelines and search the subreddit for commonly answered questions.      
Please post in English where possible. Chinese submissions should be accompanied by English translations and submitted with English titles as 99% of reddit users cannot read Chinese.
When linking to news articles, please use the original title, or a straightforward and accurate one of your own. Editorialized, provocative, inaccurate, sensationalist, and/or misleading titles may result in the removal of the post. If you add an opinion byline, please ensure that it is immediately clear which part is opinion.
Banks often serve large companies; they don’t have the ability to serve small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) well
What Manchu resources. Books, audiovisual foremost, but also curious about presential classes or tutors, if only for reference
In everyday life of Chinese citizens, how much do you feel you can change? I understand that the party leader is elected by bureaucrats, but on a lower lever - what can you as a citizen vote on? And how does your opinion change the ruling party?
I legit think if you allowed every local down the street to vote to choose their leader for the first time, it would be disastrous
Populists or Right-wing extremists would win the elections. That won't be easy to create a democratic culture and a civil society, China has always been ruled by despots since 5000y. 
Nah, I'm confident that the CPC will dominate the elections everywhere, with the opposition maybe getting a couple of seats in Beijing or Shanghai or Tibet/Xinjiang
Heck even when they tried democracy within one year a dictator took power. Major cultural change is needed first
Didn’t Taiwan allow “every local down the street ito vote to choose their leader for the first time” just 60 years ago?
Taiwan's local level elections are notoriously corrupt. Some even use it as a counter argument against China democracy. 
Taiwan's economy "stagnated" (it's still growing) due to the middle income trap, which China is just now starting to fall into.
Taiwan is one of the most successful democracies in the asia pacific region, but of course CCP will blow up every case of Taiwanese electoral corruption as "proof" that the Chinese people are too stupid and that Chinese culture is too primitive to allow people to think for themselves. 
Direct democracy is a nice idea, but in reality pretty stupid, and very dangerous, and Taiwan is going down that path. You think populism in the west is bad? You haven't seen Taiwan, where politicians will bend over twice to say anything and do anything to win a ballot.
Democracy in Taiwan is very far from from democracy in the US. Our founding father abhoored democracy, including Jefferson famously said (paraphrasing) democracy is 51% mob ruling the other 49%, and Adam smith hated the "masses". That's why US was built up to be a representative republic, where representatives vote not on behave of the people, but for the people, base on their best interest, with information the people may or may not have, and may or may not want to acknowledge. 
This is a place for expats in China, not Chinese people. There are a few of them here, but the majority is not
If you really want to see what democracy in China would be like, look at Russia. The amount of repression in Russia is quite far from China, but we are moving towards being like China under Hu Jintao
In a way, it's a good job Xi can't just be elected to a lower position like 2008 Putin to pretend he isn't clinging onto power.
Well, his term is not passed yet, and we may yet see Li Keqiang as paramount leader – and Xi's puppet
This ridiculous reply showed us how poor your knowledge is about Chinese politics. The fact is 他们根本不是一派的
Village head elections are largely democratic but even that's debatable because usually there's heavy vote buying involved. 
Most county level delegate elections may be held without much interference, but it is not a guarantee. It varies by areas and by year. 
The best outcome for China in my view is to become like a giant Singapore, not a real democracy but still more open than it is now.
Average people don't care about politics. That's true for pretty much every peacetime country in the world.
For example, in the last US election, 42% of the eligible population did not vote. There was no real choice for a candidate; they were both corrupt plutocrats totally disconnected from the average person. And the candidate who got 3m more votes actually lost the election because of some really stupid and outdated rules. That's really not that much different from China. 
Honestly, even if China magically changed into a democracy overnight that wouldn't fix any of it's core problems. It would still be highly authoritarian, nationalistic, and it probably struggle with corruption even more. India is a really good example of that, over 70% of workers work in the shadow economy in order to evade government corruption. That's why India has crappier infrastructure and lower growth rates than China. Democracy is good for social well-being, but it's not good for economic growth. I think that if you're a developed country then you place a really high value on social well-being. However if you're a developing country, making sure that poor people don't starve to death is a higher priority.
As a foreigner, not much. You make friend, work with people, talk. Those interaction can change people, maybe, sometime, and usually in minor way. In China, foreigners are kept in a bubble of their own, that reinforce that even more. Chinese people going on public space, gathering people around political ideas end-up in jail as soon as they gather even a bit of momentum. The lastest batch to go to jail was civil right movements, feminists activist, and some lawyers.
I understand that the party leader is elected by bureaucrats, but on a lower lever - what can you as a citizen vote on? 
Most of the regular contributors here are not Chinese citizen, but foreigners living in China. Chinese citizen can't vote on anything. 
If there's a social consensus on something, and if that does not imply to not much change in political power sharing, then something can change. Say, air pollution is up it's touching every Chinese major cities, people are not so happy about it and it's understood as a challenge for the authorities : policies are now including pollution reduction as an objective.
In recent years the government has been trying out direct elections for local officials in small villages. For someone living in a major city, as far as I know, there's nothing you can vote on. 
Based on my interactions with Chinese, they don't feel like they can change anything, nor do they particularly want to. Most people just have the mindset that since they can't change anything then it's pointless to worry about it and their time would be better spent thinking about making money, providing for their family or just enjoying life.
Rendered by PID 13090 on  app-129  at 2017-10-27 09:03:20.607556+00:00 running 2c9616a country code: SG.