The Communist party prepares to hail mid-point of Xi Jinping’s 10-year term. But what do people make of their leader? 
The Communist party prepares to hail mid-point of Xi Jinping’s 10-year term. But what do people make of their leader? 
“He was just over there,” reminisced Huang, the 45-year-old owner of a harbour-side equipment shop, motioning excitedly into the street to where Xi’s motorcade passed by. “The window was half open and he looked out at us and smiled. When he waved, it was as if it was in slow motion – he didn’t say a single word, but I felt so excited.”
Beijing struggles to curb poverty and pollution while keeping its markets open to competition | Phillip Inman
But as Xi completes his first term, experts say that many of China’s 1.4 billion citizens see him in a far more favourable light.
Outside his shop, a portrait of Xi – his hands clasped together – captured the image spin doctors have tried to curate of their commander-in-chief: a sagacious and omnipotent father figure leading his subjects towards “The China Dream”. An accompanying slogan stated: “The Dream of a Powerful Country. The Rejuvenation of China. The Happiness of the People. The Wealth of the Nation.”
Orville Schell, a veteran China expert from New York’s Asia Society, said he sensed “a cauldron of disaffection” bubbling beneath the surface towards China’s political leaders. But many citizens applauded how Xi was strutting China’s stuff on the world stage. “I suspect that on a surface level – but an important level – many Chinese feel a certain amount of pride that their country is now able to speak, even throw its weight around a little, and be heeded in the world,” he said.
Xi had ceded almost no ground to Trump on any of these issues, Tsang said. “And what have the Americans done? Nothing! So you can see why the average Chinese citizen might think Xi Jinping was doing really well.”
At Tanmen’s docks, Qin Huaishu, another of the president’s fans, was giving a new lick of paint to Qionghai 09045, a weathered fishing vessel that was turned into a permanent floating monument to Xi after he clambered on board during his 2013 visit.
“Xi chatted with the fishermen about their daily lives and went downstairs to check the engine,” recalled Qin, a 55-year-old workman. “Xi told the fishermen: ‘Go out and be bold. We support you all’.”
The “chairman of everything” looked down from the wall behind him in an immaculately ironed blue shirt.