If you are new, please read our posting guidelines and search the subreddit for commonly answered questions.      
Please post in English where possible. Chinese submissions should be accompanied by English translations and submitted with English titles as 99% of reddit users cannot read Chinese.
When linking to news articles, please use the original title, or a straightforward and accurate one of your own. Editorialized, provocative, inaccurate, sensationalist, and/or misleading titles may result in the removal of the post. If you add an opinion byline, please ensure that it is immediately clear which part is opinion.
Banks often serve large companies; they don’t have the ability to serve small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) well
What Manchu resources. Books, audiovisual foremost, but also curious about presential classes or tutors, if only for reference
Every foreigner I've met today has told med they got a message similar to this one from their teachers, professors and school system:
"Notice！To all international students             "The 19th Congress will be held next week. Over these few weeks the immigration bureau will be strict when dealing with foreigners. The police will conduct checks in major cities, including countrysides... Take your ID (Passport and Student ID) at all times. Foreigners are prohibited from traveling to Beijing and Shanghai during this period. International students must obtain permission from their school and respective immigration bureau before traveling to these destinations. Foreigners are not allowed to organize or gather in large numbers during this period, and this applies to religious and social settings. Students who are working illegally should be extra cautious during this period. The immigration bureau will be conducting checks in each district. Any violation during this sensitive but important period for China will result in automatic deportation. The school will not be able to help." *Collected"
Me and my gf had booked a trip to Dandong, but it had to be canceled due to this message. We had also planned a trip to Beijing next weekend that I think we will also probably miss.
Can someone explain me the situation here? We need to carry passport and visa at all times now? And my gf is here on a tourist visa, where she had to pre-book her hotel reservation. She canceled the reservation after she got the visa because she is staying with me in my "apartment". We couldn't write that she is staying with me in the application because I don't have a residence permit, as I am living in an apartment that my school owns. So yeah, she is a little bit stressed out in terms of if there will be any questioning by the police about where she lives, what she does etc...
Wasn't me! Was the local travel agency who canceled the trip for everyone who had signed up. I am in Dalian btw. 
But in all honesty, keep your documents on you and don't kick up a fuss (like I assume you normally do) and everything will be fine.
Xi dada's friends will be rewarded with new jobs, thanks to the Chinese plutocratic system they'll soon  be billionaires. Former members of the "Shanghai clique" will mysteriously disappear or 
  being jailed for corruption, their assets will be confiscated and shared between Xi's friends.
There really isn't any reason to go to Dandong, except for being an edgy traveller who travels to obscure places so they can tell people: "One time in China, when I went to Dandong - yeah, you've probably never heard of it..." And those shitty anti-American war museums are all over the place China. Granted, the one in Dandong is particularly bad. 0/10, would not buy a ticket again.
Fair enough. But why did he book a trip with a travel agency then? And who the fuck takes his girlfriend to Dandong, haha. So many questions.
It's all about that north Korean border! Travel by boat on the border river, hike up a mountain and the part of the Great wall that is there, and a "glass walkway" or something like that in the nearby hills. I want to see the North-Korean border, that's why really! 
Got you. Maybe I've lived in China for too long, but to me there's nothing cool about that. I've been to Dandong and did all those things you mentioned (except the glass walkway). 
If I was living in Dalian and wanted a holiday I'd get the first ferry to South Korea. Or fly to Japan - go hiking there, get a private Onsen with your gf... Of course Dandong is also cool if you want to see one of the shittiest places in China ;)
I would if I could! But I only have a dual entry visa, and will travel home to Norway during christmas 
When foreigners couldn't travel to Hangzhou during G20 there was understandable uproar. If this article were true it would be an international story. Also, the premise of not being allowed to travel specifically to Shanghai because of a meeting in Beijing makes absolutely no sense.
They are actually holding ‘Anti-laowai Meeting’ in beijing.  A few good rounds of laughs and passing hong baos, then massive gathering buffet during lunch & dinner, a few presentations by some CCP politobureau speakers et. 
Foreigners can't go to Beijing??? Than what the heck am I and tens of thousands of others doing here?
Only really noticed the security at the security checkpoints in the metro is a little more asinine and slower than Christmas... at least at my local stop what was once a smooth breath through security is turned into a 15 minute journey.
The PSB stopped by my place 3 times in a week. Usually its the same two guys but today was odd with 2 people together and had my info along with ny kids and wife on their cell phones. Didnt check neighbors just my apt. 
Had this during the BRICS preparation period in Xiamen too. Nine times in 5 months, checking details, searching for knives and asking if I had contact with any sex workers in the last 5 months (didn't, of course).
Usually twice a year and the dude knows me, but this was 2 other peeps, no reason to BS this just what happened this week
Poor coordination is my best guess. Guy that normally comes is cool and just wants to see ita still me and my family in the apt, the others are who knows what
this happened to me last week too at lunch. and they started by reading me the rules (in chinese) of registration and saying im illegally registered here. i showed them the registration paper then they left. it was fucking lunch time and i was about to start starfishing.
Dont believe everything you read on the internet. The only people passing this message around are the gullible African and Indian students here.
At this point, Kanada_Kid's stomach is immune to the effects of the party Kool Aid and has been making an extra effort to digest the unpalatable stench of the CCP stinky tofu, as of late. Therefore, his usual "nothing to see here, folks, because the China" comments are even more pungently off-putting.
It has always been the rule that you’re supposed to carry your passport at all times. BTW - your visa is in your passport!
What? Your resident permit is in your passport! Or are you referring to the temporary registration document from the local police station?
I don't have a residence permit, nor have I registered myself with the police. I am here on a 6 month non-business visa.
I’d suggest you both keep your heads down these next two weeks. Even in a business visa you’re supposed to report where you’re living & register if not staying in a hotel...but seems you know this anyway. They always have clampdowns & extra checks during big meetings. Hope you don’t have any issues. 
I am here on a non-business F visa though. Have never been told or read on the Chinese embassy (in Norway) website that I need to register when I'm here on that type of visa. 
Everybody needs to register within 24 hours of arrival. It's the law, doesn't matter which visa type. If you stay at a hotel they usually do it for you. If you stay at a private residence you need to do it yourself at the police station. If you have been a here a big chunk of your 6 months and are leaving soon I wouldn't bother anymore. Might get you fined when you show up now.
Strange that I haven't heard about that before now. I used a visa application agency to help me out with the visa, and they didn't tell me anything about it as well.
But yeah, worst case scenario if I get stopped by the police and can't show a residence permit? Deportation?
Aliens who do not lodge at hotels, guesthouses or inns shall, 
within 24 hours (72 hours in rural areas) of entry, go through
accommodation registration at local police station.
When I read that I was sure that my Chinese contacts would handle it for me since they told me I would be staying at a hotel. I have sent them a message now asking if they registered me or not. Thanks for all the help! 
A residence permit is a type of visa. Not to be confused with the temporary registration paper you get at the police station. You only need that when renewing your Visa or residence permit in China. Nobody has ever asked to see mine and when my parents come to visit me I've never bothered to get one for them. Technically you can get fined for not having registered.
Oh ok! Then I understand, thank you! I still don't have the temporary registration paper from the police though. But I will probably be ok? I met a Spanish girl who stayed in the same type of apartment as me, she didn't register with the police either and no problem. She also had her bf over to visit her, and he did the same thing as my gf: apply for tourist visa with hotel booked, then canceled his hotel booking to live with her. Also didn't register at the police. I have no idea why none of us thought about registering ourselves with the PSB
You're really supposed to register with the police. It's possible that since you're in university housing they've already done that for you (like the hotels do), but you should check with whoever handles foreigners at your university and figure that out. The 24 hour registration requirement is nationwide and taken quite seriously.
if you stay in a hotel or as he said in a half hotel he doesn;t need to go to the police station to register. it should be already logged from their system. If they ask you just telling them the address should be fine.
Second, you living on school property is no excuse to not have a residence permit, you're obviously into something shady so yeah I'd steer clear of police if I were you.
And for the 2nd point: I am here on a non business f-visa for a PhD research exchange at a Chinese Institute. The Chinese institute has student dormitories for their graduate and post-graduate students. I live in this building which is a "half-hotel", meaning they change my bedsheets and towels once in a while and taking my trash out. No one here has told me I need to register. Not even when I applied for my visa back in Norway. I will stay here for 6 months in total on a dual entry non-business F visa. 
The Institute where I "work" pays and provides for my accommodation. I write "work" because yes it is work, but I recieve all my salary from Norway. It was a pain to get the correct visa i wanted since they thought I was here for work and needed a work visa, or that I was a student and needed student visa. I am neither. 
I will send a email to my Chinese supervisor/professor and ask if they have registered me or if I should have done that earlier. And I guess my girlfriend should register as well, but for that to happen I need my residence permit first. 
Ignorance of the law is no defence. Let's hope that the "half hotel" includes the half that registers residents with the police in their behalf like most "full" hotels do. 
Well, I haven't been told or read anywhere that I needed to register on a non-business F visa. They didn't tell me when I applied, it wasn't mentioned on the Chinese embassy website either. It was only mentioned that people travelling on certain types of visas would need to register with the PSB.
boi, according to the law you MUST register within 24h (48h?). Nobody checks it really but IF you are at the coppers, I'd rather have that registration. no joke I think they could deport if they didnt like your face
You technically have to register at a police station no matter what visa you're on.  We do something similar with our foreign professors (we are in collaboration with a foreign university) but we register them at the police station every time they are over for a visit.  They stay in the "hotel" inside our campus.
Even though you were meant to register the worst the police will give you is a slap on the wrist, it's not like you needed a residence permit on your visa.  I don't think it's an extremely serious issue, that's just my opinion and it obviously depends on the people enforcing the law themselves.
The girlfriend thing however is a bit more iffy, you say she reserved a hotel which was on her L visa application.  The fact that she cancelled the reservation didn't register at the police and immediately came to live with you looks suspicious and makes it obvious she lied on her application.  Again I don't think anyone will notice or care but if someone does notice, questions indeed might be asked.
As for the 19th congress, a lot of foreigners are being stopped and checked on the spot.  Whether or not you are is up to fate, if I were you I'd have your stories sorted out before you start wandering about though.  I wouldn't bother carrying your passport, the risk of losing or having your passport stolen is probably greater than the risk of being asked to show your passport.
Since you said your tour agency canceled the trip, perhaps it's only for group tours. Certainly not individual travelers.
Xi Jinping is expected to lay out the economic and social reforms for the next five years, as well as the priorities for China and the communist party.
Xi could also signal who his successor is. Some people are also interested in how his anti-corruption guy, Wang Qishan, will come out. He's nearing retirement age, but the rule could be broken.
Rendered by PID 33927 on  app-382  at 2017-10-27 09:06:09.910168+00:00 running 2c9616a country code: SG.