If you are new, please read our posting guidelines and search the subreddit for commonly answered questions.      
Please post in English where possible. Chinese submissions should be accompanied by English translations and submitted with English titles as 99% of reddit users cannot read Chinese.
When linking to news articles, please use the original title, or a straightforward and accurate one of your own. Editorialized, provocative, inaccurate, sensationalist, and/or misleading titles may result in the removal of the post. If you add an opinion byline, please ensure that it is immediately clear which part is opinion.
Banks often serve large companies; they don’t have the ability to serve small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) well
What Manchu resources. Books, audiovisual foremost, but also curious about presential classes or tutors, if only for reference
I don't trust Chinese banks and do all my banking from European bank accounts, but I'd like to have something nearby in case there are issues. Has anyone successfully opened a personal bank account in HK somewhat recently? If so what were the requirements?
You can't anymore. You need reasonable motivation to open one, like paying rent and utilities (needs a contract) or say you need a phone contract. 
he wants at least impression of safety for his finance I guess, in China you never know when they will just freeze your account infinitely
That can happen in any country. HK would be no exception especially since they are part of China now.
3 years ago I opened one with Citibank HK, all I needed was my UK drivers license. I'm not aware of any regulation changes in HK since then. You just need proof of address and a willingness to hold a big balance, as a "tourist".
What was the procedure? When I tried to open one, they said they will mail the debit card to a place in HK within a week. Unfortunately I was only there for 2 days & have Noone that can receive my mail. 
I dont have one, but heard that you can do it with proof of address, which could be as easy as mail addressed to you, or as difficult as a utility bill. 
But in all seriousnes, you do need address proof, proving you living in Hong Kong. This has to be an utility bill with your name on it or someone vouching for you that you live with them.
If you are in Mainland, it is supposedly possible with a passport but it's not at easy as it used to be.
Rendered by PID 8579 on  app-459  at 2017-10-27 08:56:39.636404+00:00 running 2c9616a country code: SG.