The app allows members to receive party-related activity notifications, ideology tutorials, or chat with peers under the same party branch organization, according to Liang Lihua, marketing director of Yunshu Weilai, the startup founded by the university to develop the platform. It collects basic information such as work experience and family background, and also gathers party members’ online activities because the internet is “closely connected with life habits,” Liang told Quartz.
“But it’s impossible [for the platform] to gather private personal information since those are protected by laws… the platform abides by the laws and regulations.” He 
The app was first developed in 2012, and as of September had gathered more than 2 million party member users, according to Liang.
Smart Red Cloud is just one of hundreds of apps that do more or less the same thing. There’s even an “app factory” that cranks out apps for any party organization that asks for one.
Zeng Ying, project director at Fujian-based online education company Hua Yu, says his company was among the first to develop apps for party education, in early 2015. Soon several party-affiliated organizations got in touch. Hua Yu then established the “Good China Party Members” project, which specializes in developing party apps on request. The company says it’s developed more than a hundred apps for about 300 clients, including local party branches and party organizations in companies. Hua Yu’s apps have about 6 million registered party member users, according to the company.
Meanwhile, in Laizhou, in China’s northeastern Shandong province, nearly 70% of the county’s 60,000 party members are using a Hua Yu app called Dang Yuan Le E Xue, which loosely translates as “party members learning happily online.” Zeng said it has been helpful in organizing members from the largely rural area, which sees many people migrate away for work.
Hua Yu is now testing a chat bot to answer users’ queries about the party. But as for incorporating AI in their apps to analyze personal information, Zeng said that is right now seen as “too sensitive.”
The cost of developing an app can exceed 1 million yuan ($152,000), and Hua Yu charges companies and organizations annual fees for using its apps. Zeng wouldn’t say if the app project is profit-making, but expressed optimism about the business. “The party will definitely continue to emphasize party construction on a long-term basis; as long as the big environment stays, there will be business for us.”
To a certain extent, the surging emergence of party apps reflects China’s broader ambitions for its technology industry.
Perhaps for this reason, party apps have been in high demand as this week’s key leadership meeting, the 19th Party Congress approached, as the Global Times tabloid noted. On the surface, they appear to be vehicles through which local party organizations can keep tabs on their members and also promote party ideology. But some are skeptical that the current generation of party apps can effectively use the technologies the party wants to promote.
“If the cadres are aware of this system, I suspect they will be careful as to what they say during those discussions,” he said. Yunshu did not respond to Quartz’s request for comment on Chun’s remarks.
Critics also argue that these party-construction apps have an element of political performance. Huang Haifeng, associate professor in political science at the University of California at Merced with a focus on authoritarianism, said that local party branches appear to be using the apps to show their bosses that they are actively monitoring party members. As a result, app developers like Hua Yu are getting business opportunities.
But as for really helping the party exert ideological control, or suss out wayward thought, the apps could have the opposite effect by signalling that members are being watched and making them more cautious. “People are not going to reveal what they are thinking,” he said.
The Quartz guide to artificial intelligence: What is it, why is it important, and should we be afraid?