Visibility falls to 50 metres in some parts of the capital as air pollution soars despite efforts to ensure blue skies during party congress
Beijing and two neighbouring cities were blanketed in thick smog on Friday morning, just days after the end of the Communist Party’s 19th national congress.
An orange alert – the second highest possible – was issued for the capital, the northern port city of Tianjin and Shijiazhuang in Hebei province.
As of 11am, the density of PM2.5 pollutants in Beijing’s air was 177 micrograms per cubic metre – far above the World Health Organisation’s recommended safe level of 25mcg.
In some parts of the capital, visibility was as low as 50 metres, the China Meteorological Administration said.
Despite the authorities introducing a raft of measures aimed at ensuring blue skies during the party congress, including closing factories and restricting traffic, the weeklong, twice-a-decade event was held amid smoggy conditions.
A yellow warning – the lowest on the three-tier scale – was issued on each of the first two days, before a red alert – the highest possible – was signalled on day three. The situation improved – back to yellow – for the next few days before an orange alert was necessary on Tuesday, the final day of the congress. On Thursday, a red alert was issued in some parts of Beijing.
“With the cold air coming in tomorrow, there will be an obvious improvement in Beijing’s air quality and visibility,” the administration said on its website, adding that “the blue sky and white clouds will return”.
In early September, the Ministry of Environmental Protection warned that the annual smog season had arrived earlier than in previous years. Beijing’s air pollution problems traditionally worsen with the arrival of the colder weather, as demand for heating soars across the city and coal-fired power plants ramp up their production.
China’s northeast was not the only region to be hit with smog on Friday. According to the meteorological office, air quality was so poor in some parts of Shanxi, Jiangsu, Shandong, Shaanxi, Henan, Sichuan and Chongqing, that several motorways had to be closed.
President Xi Jinping, who tightened his grip on power at the congress, said in his opening speech that the country would “continue implementing air pollution prevention measures and win the war on protecting the blue sky”.