If you are new, please read our posting guidelines and search the subreddit for commonly answered questions.      
Please post in English where possible. Chinese submissions should be accompanied by English translations and submitted with English titles as 99% of reddit users cannot read Chinese.
When linking to news articles, please use the original title, or a straightforward and accurate one of your own. Editorialized, provocative, inaccurate, sensationalist, and/or misleading titles may result in the removal of the post. If you add an opinion byline, please ensure that it is immediately clear which part is opinion.
Banks often serve large companies; they don’t have the ability to serve small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) well
What Manchu resources. Books, audiovisual foremost, but also curious about presential classes or tutors, if only for reference
I am in US for a couple of months and I am looking for a way to watch youku here. Astrill VPN's China server worked fine about a year ago. But I think it doesn't work anymore.
Yes, it's awful. You can only watch older movies and shows for free, most of which can be found on YouTube or Putlocker or a dozen other sites not blocked to people outside China. The movies and shows on YouKu which are not produced in China are also censored for content. On top of that you have to bear 90 second commercials to watch just about anything and also get frequent reminders to download their spyware ridden software on your phone or pad. Bilibili is better since it doesn't have commercials if you just download and turn off wifi during the initial movie loading. 
I watch some popular Chinese shows (非诚勿扰，欢乐颂，爸爸去哪儿) to practice my Chinese. But they grew on me and I now watch regularly. Almost none of these shows can be found on anywhere else. That's the reason why behind my snarky reply.
But that's what I'm saying, they are all on YouTube. Just search. If you can't find them on YouTube they are on Putlocker under their English name. Hell, PutLocker has whole sections devoted to Chinese and Taiwanese shows. 
I remember searching for these shows a while back not being able to find them on youtube. I am apparently wrong. Thanks a ton.
Rendered by PID 33715 on  app-319  at 2017-10-27 09:02:52.860736+00:00 running 2c9616a country code: SG.