If you are new, please read our posting guidelines and search the subreddit for commonly answered questions.      
Please post in English where possible. Chinese submissions should be accompanied by English translations and submitted with English titles as 99% of reddit users cannot read Chinese.
When linking to news articles, please use the original title, or a straightforward and accurate one of your own. Editorialized, provocative, inaccurate, sensationalist, and/or misleading titles may result in the removal of the post. If you add an opinion byline, please ensure that it is immediately clear which part is opinion.
Banks often serve large companies; they don’t have the ability to serve small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) well
What Manchu resources. Books, audiovisual foremost, but also curious about presential classes or tutors, if only for reference
I request serious replies to this post - I moved into my apartment in China about three weeks ago, which is conveniently a ten minute walk from class at the university.  It is at the address I was given before I moved to China.  The apartment was a mess and looked almost nothing like the pictures provided to me by email.  It looked like a punk band lived in the place for a month while on an alcohol-fueled recording and party rampage.   So I spent hours cleaning the place and putting the furniture back to where furniture goes, not strewn about randomly.  
Fast forward to Friday night.  Classes are going well.  I'm liking my job as a teacher.  One of the university administrators calls me to say that "you have to move to a different campus which is over an hour away from where you live now because of the residence permit".  This means commuting by bus each way to work on every weekday.  I said, "No, I'm not moving.  If you insist, well, then I'll leave my job and return to the U.S." Well, what the hell should I do?  What are the ramifications of leaving?  I feel like these people can just lie on a stupid form to say I'm living at the other campus.  That way I can just keep teaching my students and life is good, and their paperwork can get filed away, not that anyone cares or even probably looks at it.
He is lying to you. This has nothing to do with your resident permit, absolutely nothing. They do not want to pay the rent for that apartment for the next year, simple as that. 
Put your foot down, do not let them boss you around. An hour long commute is hell. You work at uni so your pay is already terrible, free and convenient housing to the uni is the very least they can do for you.
This is the best answer, imo.  Possibly they have decided to shut down (or reduce) whatever TEFL program you are teaching this year.  So they don't want an apartment to be empty.  There are other possibilities.  They might want you to start teaching some classes at the other campus and this is a way to get you nearby already before they ask.  
I mean it could be - partly - this and some bad translation. Policy changes may mean they’ve realised that flat can’t be rented by foreigners and the flat they lined up is somewhere else? But they should be able to find one closer (as you said - money). 
If it was in any other way tenuously related to the residence permit then OP would also have to work at that other campus, and they aren’t suggesting that. 
There is in my university unfortunately. Not sure whose rule it is though (the university's I think).
And to add:  You state 'one of the university administrators' - It is common for a more senior person to ask a more junior to do something, while they could themselves, to put up a barrier in communication / make something seem more official.
This is likely due to the 19th congress, and the police tightening up laws, and checking up on paperwork and policies they made long ago, but only every few years care to check.  I've been in the situation before where Iwas forced to move, because my location was not allowed by a residence permit.  The landlords hands were tied, and the police confirmed it was real, not just a landlord trying to dump me.
It's happened to others before, and it sucks.  They gave me just 2 weeks to move out to another place in town.
Obviously, I would fight it as far as you can, bitch and complain ,and threaten to go home, and if they shut up, it was probably the school trying to save a buck or two.  If they insist, and have security involved, it's probably the real deal.
Definitely a possibility, he should probably ask the PSB/local police directly if it's true or not (or get a friend to do so with him) this way he can get to the truth.  Sometimes it's easy to assume Chinese people are trying to cheat you (because you do so often) but it's not always the case.  Sometimes the bullshit trickles all the way down the ladder and you're the one who has to swallow it.
In either case I think a one hour commute each way for a few university lessons per day is unacceptable given the likely low pay, he should be looking for another job or asking someone to try and sort it out.  If it turns out to be true it alleviates a little of the blame from the university in which case he shouldn't jump down their throats about it but try to quit without causing a ruckus.
I've been in the situation before where Iwas forced to move, because my location was not allowed by a residence permit.
The landlords hands were tied, and the police confirmed it was real, not just a landlord trying to dump me.
I no longer believe this story (not saying you are lying but perhaps mistaken) because if its the landlord ejecting you then there is no policy issue period
I remember when the discriminatory laws against foreigners were wiped from the law books only to come back in force 15 years later when a certain poo-bear decided his shit don't stink
Landlord was/is still a friend of mine.  The reason given by the police who I spoke to was the nearby area in which I lived was a government sensitive area, and there had been a lot of protests recently by older folks over some local problems.  They had a new police chief come in to try to snuff out the protests, and decided to follow all the residency laws in the books. One of those is no foreigners within so many meters of certain senstive government offices (for our safety, that's what they told me, lol).  The building I lived in had 2 floors for the Youth league and nearby were some other offices used by the government.  I lived there for 2 years, and 2 months into the new contract this happened.  Some other foreigners in a building next to mine also got the boot.
I no longer believe this story (not saying you are lying but perhaps mistaken) because if its the landlord ejecting you then there is no policy issue period
Landlord is told to get rid and follow the law. Landlord given small grace period in order to protect tenant. Landlord ejects foreigner. What is so hard to understand?
Instead he went to those cops himself. It's essentially the same thing achieved in a less confrontational manner. ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
I just never lived in a China where they enforced the extremely stupid rules. You do know the army controls huge swaths of the country right? 
They're evicting foreigners because they can not because of the dumb rules, or they are enforcing the rules because they can, full stop.
If you were parachuted into a new area and given a promotion because the last guy was investigated and sacked for corruption, would you keep the status quo, or would you enforce even the most pointless of rules to flex a bit of muscle?
On the other hand if the rules impacted someone who matters I might see my way clear to changing the rule
Unless the new police officer is a large scale landlord, rules "inconveniencing" foreigners like this will never impact someone who matters.
You did have a housing registration form, required for all foreign residents, filled-out and stamped/registered in your local PSB, within 24 hours of moving into a new place?
Just say no and don’t say anything else. I did my TEFL certification this summer in Beijing and was constantly asked to go to schools that required a 2+ hour commute. They always ended up finding someone else. TEFL certification teaching positions are some of the most lucrative for agencies and employers because you semi-legally do the work of a full time employee for a small percentage of the actual salary. At times my exchanges with my agent(s) and their boss got ugly, but at the end of the day they respected me for standing my ground and there were no hard feelings. Also it’s always helpful to get a native Chinese friend to advocate for you, even if you have a high level of fluency it’ll make it less of a polarized foreigner vs. local standoff 
Don't understand how a resident permit dictates where you have to live... say what?  Most people working on Z visas with their own residence permits get to pick and choose where they live, the company foots the bill.  That's assuming they aren't living in their own condo with their family.
Sounds like the school admin thinks the rent is too expensive in the area right next to the school, so they want to move you closer to the backwater campus, where rent is cheaper, while forcing you to show up to work at the main campus.   You may consider that, but tell them they need to pay you for the time spent commuting everyday! 
I've had some nightmarish housing problems in China. Always with university housing. I agree with all the advice here, and would only add the following:
The way it's been explained to me, the university housing is never "owned" by the university. They aren't your landlord. Your landlord is a private citizen who owns the building. You probably won't meet him. In any event, the university is your liaison to the landlord, but they are only speaking for his wishes/desires, and they don't have any control over what he wants. 
Also (fun bonus prize) you may never speak to the landlord directly, even if you get a Chinese translator. There are a few reasons for this; the one that made the most sense to me is that you don't have a formal lease, you are a "hotel guest" (as a matter of law), so he has no legal reason to deal with you. If you signed an actual rental contract/lease, this isn't true, but that's not usually the case with university housing. You sign an agreement about following noise rules, etc., but not a formal financial agreement. Not for university housing anyway.
So legally the university is the tenant, and you are a permitted "guest" of the tenant. So you basically have zero rights.
So why are they making you move? Could be that they don't understand the way a Residence Permit works, that's a definite possibility. Could also be that the landlord just got back from checking his other building in another province, found out that a white person is living in an apartment where a white person lived last year. He hated that, and demanded that you leave. The university doesn't have a lot of contracts with private landlords for housing, so they just put you in (most likely) the only other building where they have a short-term rental contract.
The Residence Permit is a convenient excuse.. for example my police registration says I live in the main campus, but I actually live in the "satellite" campus 90 minutes away. So yeah the address on your residence permit/police registration isn't too important, it's more about your legal status with the uni.
As for solutions... there aren't any good ones. If they have made up their minds that you should move, you're moving. You can stick it out until security shows up, but I don't think there's anything you can say or do to change this situation, short of getting another job. I think if you ask for more money to compensate for the commute they would refuse because there's no way for them to officially pay you for that in their system.
You could just... not move. See who blinks first. As they don't have an actual good reason for making you move, that might work. Always be polite when you refuse, just say that you are happy living where you are but you will consider moving next year, as you love the school and will work there forever, etc...
The Residence Permit is a convenient excuse.. for example my police registration says I live in the main campus, but I actually live in the "satellite" campus 90 minutes away. So yeah the address on your residence permit/police registration isn't too important, it's more about your legal status with the uni.
You do realise this is illegal? Not like “you’re killing babies” illegal, but “you can’t be blasé about it being a convenient excuse” illegal because it could easily be that his local police have caught his university, where yours haven’t cottoned in yet. 
I can only provide anecdotal evidence on my current situation. At my uni, the police do regular sweeps of all the apartments, checking the police registration forms and other legal documents for every foreign teacher (we all live in the same building). We all have the main campus address on our forms and no one has ever had a problem. 
Also some teachers are assigned to teach at both schools, and they aren’t given extra pay for this. Maybe that’s how they justify the main campus address being on our forms? Not sure. 
You could just... not move. See who blinks first. As they don't have an actual good reason for making you move, that might work. Always be polite when you refuse, just say that you are happy living where you are but you will consider moving next year, as you love the school and will work there forever, etc...
Good advice. Take it easy and be nice at first. But don't make any concessions. Hell, resort to using emojis in the texts, that shit helps. Emojis save lives guys
Just reply to all of their messages with the 'crying with laughter' emoji, or the one with someone getting clocked with a hammer. They'll get the message eventually. 
Tell him to suck a dick. Teaching jobs are easy to come by in China, and they are all trying to fuck you in some way.
My fam and I moved into a nice flat provided by the school, and we cleaned it up and made it homey and nice. One month later they tell us we have to move in one week because a vice principal of the school needs to live there. They also showed us the alternative, an absolute hovel (personally, I think some schools use us expats as glorified house cleaners cause we tend to clean it up, even when leaving. So we get put into one place, clean it up, then  get moved out so some other person can enjoy the fruit of our labours). Everyone here leaves rented apartments like this. So we refused, pointing out that there was no furniture, a/c, functioning kitchen, water heater, beds, drawers, tables, all stipulated by the contract. Of course, the waiban promises me that will all be provided after we move. I actually laughed out loud and said we want to help the school but there is no way we are moving until that other apartment is up to snuff. They'd never get around to it if we moved in first. So the week-deadline ultimately turned into 3 months! We did move. The vice principal never showed (it's over a year now). We figure the president of the school, who often came home drunk and noisy, didn't want the foreigners to see that, so asked us to be moved. 
Our family is pretty positive minded so we've made the overall experience a good time, but the school atmosphere has been horrible. If your school is doing this to you now I don't think anything will get better. Next it will be late salary, extra work, pressure to do this or that, and no care shown or given for your well-being. If I was single and more mobile I'd hightail it out of there, if I were you, with an explanation why AFTER you get the release letter.
Just move to a different province and get a release letter from the university so you can carry on working legally, if you are working legally 
Move over an hour away? Ok, this is downright bizarre. It's possible that you would have to move, but why the hell can't they move you closer? Did you ask and what was their response? What is the reason for you not being able to stay?
I think you did what almost all of us would do. Say no and threaten to move. If the "you got to move" thing is not legit, they will quickly fold and you should now be on guard as they have now shown they have no problem lying to you or making your life miserable.
If they say ok, bye then, then it's probably legit. You can try and get them to spring for a closer place if you like the job. If they are completely unwilling to bend, then find another gig. 
Because of the new regs and nationwide computer system now in place, I don't think anyone can say for sure that you can't be blacklisted. In the past it was always up for debate how legit it was. From the talks I've had with Chinese staff that process the visas, there is no actual "blacklist", but you effectively can be blacklisted from working the same province if an employer doesn't give you a release letter. Now that we have a nationwide system, it might be possible to be "blacklisted" nationwide if they don't give you a release letter.
If the issue causes you to leave, try to make it amicable, convince them that an hour long commute is not what you agreed to and see if they will give you a release letter. If they are reasonable, they should understand and do it. 
Could be the landlord being nervous about receiving another "Punk Band Garbage Lord", trying to get you out of his hands, could be he has some leverage with the university through one of its members.
Ask if that is the case, if it is, show the clean apartment and make a solemn oath for what it's worth.
Before you decide to put you foot down it would be a good idea to collect a bit more intelligence. Is there someone else that you can ask. Some places are really to able to register as a foreign residence but it would be good to talk to some others who might know.
Your resident permit is in no way tied to certain districts, or even apartment complexes. 
Uni jobs pay like crap but have free housing and light schedules to compensate. 
If your commute to work is anything more than walking across campus then the time/value trade is off balance. 
Unless your university has very good guanxi with the local PSB, you're shit out of luck because the police will be monitoring you to ensure you live in your registered address.
If your university is truly insisting you have to move, I would just find other work (no shortage in China), resign and have your company release your visa to your new employer, I don't think you necessarily have to go home if you want to leave your current job but still stay in China. It's up to you.
Edit: Oh btw, just in case your company is trashy or anything and tries to threaten you from leaving your job, don't believe any bullshit about how they can "blacklist" you or get you arrested/deported, these are common bluffs used to intimidate people who are new to China.
Rendered by PID 41608 on  app-278  at 2017-10-27 09:01:20.261065+00:00 running 2c9616a country code: SG.