
            
            
            
                    Dutch courage? Effects of acute alcohol consumption on self-ratings and observer ratings of foreign language skills
                
            
            
        

                
                        
                                Abstract
                            
                    
            
A popular belief is that alcohol improves the ability to speak in a foreign language. The effect of acute alcohol consumption on perceived foreign language performance and actual foreign language performance in foreign language learners has not been investigated. The aim of the current study was to test the effects of acute alcohol consumption on self-rated and observer-rated verbal foreign language performance in participants who have recently learned this language.
Fifty native German speakers who had recently learned Dutch were randomized to receive either a low dose of alcohol or a control beverage that contained no alcohol. Following the experimental manipulation, participants took part in a standardized discussion in Dutch with a blinded experimenter. The discussion was audio-recorded and foreign language skills were subsequently rated by two native Dutch speakers who were blind to the experimental condition (observer-rating). Participants also rated their own individual Dutch language skills during the discussion (self-rating).
Participants who consumed alcohol had significantly better observer-ratings for their Dutch language, specifically better pronunciation, compared with those who did not consume alcohol. However, alcohol had no effect on self-ratings of Dutch language skills.
Acute alcohol consumption may have beneficial effects on the pronunciation of a foreign language in people who have recently learned that language.
Intact preference conditioning in acute intoxication despite deficient declarative knowledge and working memory
A comparison of the anticipated and pharmacological effects of alcohol on cognitive bias, executive function, craving and ad-lib drinking
Effects of self-esteem on leniency bias in self-reports of performance: A structural equation model analysis
Acute alcohol effects on inhibitory control and implicit cognition: Implications for loss of control over drinking
Does drinking help with foreign languages? Is there truth to the old theory about drinking and speaking other languages?
Why we like to drink: A functional magnetic resonance imaging study of the rewarding and anxiolytic effects of alcohol
The effects of experimentally induced changes in ego states on pronunciation ability in a second language: An exploratory study
http://www.slate.com/blogs/lexicon_valley/2014/11/03/alcohol_and_foreign_languages_a_small_amount_can_make_you_speak_better_but.html
Alcohol-induced impairment of behavioral control: Differential effects on engaging vs. disengaging responses
The effects of various amounts of ethanol upon risk taking tendency and confidence in task performance

        If you have the appropriate software installed, you can download article citation data to the citation manager of your choice. Simply select your manager software from the list below and click on download.
    
Dutch courage? Effects of acute alcohol consumption on self-ratings and observer ratings of foreign language skills