When nationalism is unleashed it is a very blunt instrument. It all boils down to perspective, but sanctions and boycotts are a fascinating business.  They can occur equally on local levels or in geopolitical spheres.  They may or may not achieve the desired outcome.  The effects can be devastating. Real people may lose the ability to feed and provide for their families.  Others, as in the case of South Africa’s past, may cast aside oppression for new opportunities.
THAAD is an American Lockheed Martin Space Systems anti-ballistic missile defense system designed to shoot down short, medium, and intermediate range ballistic missiles in their terminal phase (descent or reentry) by intercepting with a hit-to-kill approach. The system consists of a network of tracking and guidance radars and interceptor launchers. March 6, 2017, the first two THAAD launcher trucks arrived in South Korea for deployment. This was officially in response to North Korean missile launches.
Back in 2016, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi, expressed concerns that deployment of THAAD in South Korea, despite being directed at North Korea, could jeopardize China’s “legitimate national security interests”.  China fears the system’s powerful radar positioned near its border could be used against its military.
“The number of Chinese tourists, which used to account for about half of all visitors to South Korea, halved in the first seven months of 2017 compared to a year ago. That meant $5.1 billion in lost business for South Korea, based on the average spending of Chinese visitors in 2015, data from the Korea Tourism Organization shows.”
“Of Lotte’s 99 Mart stores in China, 74 were shut down by fire authorities over safety violations such as boxes blocking exit doors. Another 13 stores were shut down because of difficult business conditions.”
South Korea’s No.5 conglomerate (Lotte Group), has been the hardest hit company after transferring land in South Korea so the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) system could be installed there. Let’s let that sink in.  While the sanctions and boycotts have been effective at unleashing the wrath of China’s displeasure- the missile system went fully active this week.  This is an illustration of the blunted force of sanctions when resolutely applied, yet the objective remains elusive.
Now, depending on where you were born, you may be feeling hostility towards China for their heavy-handedness.  Or you may be feeling hostility toward this American writer for being unfair to China. The diplomatic hypocrisy among nations when it comes to considering sanctions is apperceived.
In hindsight now that we know the US intelligence was faulty and/or manufactured, do you think these ‘freedom fries’ eaters feel foolish today?Somehow, I doubt it.
Sanctions and Boycotts can be a powerful, devastating, and sometimes effective tool- let’s use them wisely, people.
Todd Jackson is a graduate of the University of Montana Business School and has studied at the Yuxi Normal University in Yunnan, China.  He has spent over a decade in China as an entrepreneur, business consultant, researcher, and student.  He has also served on staff in public service for US Senator Max Baucus.
Todd Jackson is a graduate of the University of Montana Business School and has studied at the Yuxi Normal University in Yunnan, China.  He has spent over a decade in China as an entrepreneur, business consultant, researcher, and student.  He has also served on staff in public service for US Senator Max Baucus.
Enter your email address to subscribe to China Considered and receive notifications of new posts by email.