After just one day of broadcast on Chinese television stations, Ikea has pulled the commercial, saying in a statement that they "apologize for giving the wrong impression."
​​In a series of quick edits, the parents upgrade their home with Ikea furnishings, which are marked in the commercial with their product names and prices.
However, the part of the commercial that has inflamed public outrage is the line of dialog that sets up its premise. Right at the beginning, the mother puts down her chopsticks loudly and complains to her daughter: "If you don't bring a boyfriend home, don't consider me to be your mother anymore."
Despite the comedic effect of the sudden mood shift of the parents as well as the father changing his shirt by ripping it off, the satire of the commercial went unnoticed by a public angry at the way it depicts single women.
Viewers complained of being "disappointed" at the TV commercial for being "inappropriate" and showing the "wrong sense of worth."
"Not bringing a boyfriend home will result in a mean face and no festive atmosphere, but doing so will result in smiles and welcomes. How is this a family?" read the complaint.
Another complaint used the furniture retailer's corporate image against them. "It's hard to believe that the system of values (shown in the commercial) comes from Ikea and its brand of lifestyle comfort," it read.
In a statement, Ikea acknowledged that the advertisement's depiction of "gender equality" may have offended some people.
Although some online comments suggested that some people may be "too sensitive," one commenter replied that such an opinion substantiated the outrage.
"This TV ad tried to show how Ikea can help customers easily and affordably convert a typical living room into a place for celebration. The purpose was to encourage customers to celebrate moments in everyday life," read the statement.
The outrage over Ikea's recent commercial measures far beyond the reception given to a recently-made commercial that features the exact same themes, but made by a Chinese company.
The ad sought to emphasize that Didi Chuxing's scrutiny of its drivers is as strict as Chinese parents' examination of a candidate for marrying their daughter.
Beijing Bans Airbnb Bookings, Forces Clubs and Bars to Shut, and Boosts Security in Advance of 19th Plenum