If you are new, please read our posting guidelines and search the subreddit for commonly answered questions.      
Please post in English where possible. Chinese submissions should be accompanied by English translations and submitted with English titles as 99% of reddit users cannot read Chinese.
When linking to news articles, please use the original title, or a straightforward and accurate one of your own. Editorialized, provocative, inaccurate, sensationalist, and/or misleading titles may result in the removal of the post. If you add an opinion byline, please ensure that it is immediately clear which part is opinion.
Banks often serve large companies; they don’t have the ability to serve small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) well
What Manchu resources. Books, audiovisual foremost, but also curious about presential classes or tutors, if only for reference
If you're used to backpacking it will be fine, the TLG isn't that hard and the vast majority of it is a dirt track, not like you're scrambling over rocks or fighting your way through a jungle.  The harder section, as others have mentioned, is '28 bends', which is near the beginning.  Once you're past that it's easy.
Taking a 2 year old though, you'll have to be prepared.  There's few stops along the way.  There are around 3-4 guesthouses in which you can stay overnight, but these won't have nappies, baby food, or anything like that.  So whatever your kid will need for the next 2 days needs to be packed. 
Thanks for the reply. We're used to taking plenty of supplies with us wherever we go, but 2 days worth, plus what we need for ourselves, being carried by one person might not be so much fun.
You're welcome.  I assumed you're going to stay the night, there are tours that will drive you to the main section of the gorge and back in a day.
How do you plan to get there? IMO the KidComfort 3 is the best of the lot - it was the best I could get when I bought mine, anyway - but it's also bigger than the others. You might have issues getting it to the Tiger Leaping Gorge. It's too tall to fit inside even the most generous of modern suitcases, to get mine to China I had to find a set of huge ones my parents had bought to go on a cruise years ago... the case weighed so much that I could basically only pack the carrier and a few bulky clothes inside and had to leave a big air gap.
Thanks for the reply - quite a lot of things to think about there.  Hadn't even considered the issue of getting the carrier down there, but chances are we'd be flying to LJ from Beijing.
I went around a month ago and it was all accessible via staircases and boardwalks, so you should be fine. Are you planning on doing some kind of hike?
Yep, it’s a fairly easy walk, lots of guest houses with facilities to suit most needs. You might find it a bit of a drag if the weather is wet and cold.
Thanks for the reply(s).  From what others are saying it seems that although its not a difficult walk, the logistics of carrying a kid, plus stuff we need for ourselves might make it not very practical.
If any multiday trek in China is possible to do with a child strapped to your back, it is TLG. Except the first bit, which is a fairly strenuous switchback hike, you are essentially walking flat along the side of the canyon or even heading down. Lots of places to break, lots of guest houses. If you are very experienced as a hiker it should be fine.
TLG isn't that easy though. Yeah, okay, when you've done the 28 bends it flattens out a lot, but it's not really a hike you'd wanna do with a kid of your back unless you're a seasoned hiker imho
Thanks for the reply(s) - I'm a pretty experienced hiker, but not with bringing my kid along.  Based on what others have said it might be easier to find somewhere nice and rural but with some tourist infrastructure and base ourselves there then do short day excursions, rather than a multi-day hike - any suggestions anyone ?
Wait, are you doing the upper gorge two-day hike, or the lower gorge hike? Upper hike...I'd say bad idea. Lower gorge from what I understand should be fine.
Yup, that's the one I mean! It's the one most local tourists refer to and suggest that gives you a close up view of the gorges.
The full two days hike, no, bad idea. Some section are slippery, or involve down climbing old rusty vertical ladders don't risk it with a kid.
I'd say no. I mean the altitude is about 3000 metres for a start- I had a serious case of altitude sickness the first time I did it- kept throwing up etc. I imagine it will affect a small kid more. Also the 28 bends section is really tough. Plus, if it's sunny the kid will probably get really uncomfortable, especially as the atmosphere is thinner so it's easier to get burnt. Plus none of the hostels along the upper route really have facilities for kids that young.
I took 2 kids (1 ½, 3) to Lijiang in the summer. They only started showing any kind of altitude sickness on the Snow Mountain over 4000m. Once we got below that they were fine again.
Yeah, it's weird- first time I went to Lijiang and TLG I had absolutely terrible altitude sickness- my stomach was awful.
However last year I went trekking up to 4700 m near the Tibetan border and around the Nujiang valley I was absolutely fine.
There's being in Lijiang, and there's walking a non-trivial trail with 15kg on your back. Adding a 2 year old kid with no endurance, on a such a trail (it's slippery, you can't just stop anywhere you wish to cool down, drink or change a diaper), with the altitude, is not wise.
Rendered by PID 112447 on  app-433  at 2017-10-27 09:07:40.822957+00:00 running 2c9616a country code: SG.