Read about the efforts of The Nature Conservancy to protect the beautiful and endangered Black Snub-Nosed Monkey (also known as Yunnan Golden monkey).
over one million members, and has protected more than 48,000,000 ha of land and thousands of miles of rivers worldwide.
There is still a long way to go but at least the first steps towards the right direction have been taken.
The Black Snub-Nosed Monkey was almost completely unknown by the scientific community until the 1990s.
They make their home at altitudes higher than any other primate except humans. They can survive at an altitude of up to 4700 meters.
The Black Snub-Nosed Monkey lives in very large super-groups which are made up of several families. Each of them has a single dominant male with many females.
Their favorite food is the Spanish moss that grows abundantly in the remote forests of South China but it takes a lot to reform. So the monkeys move fast looking for new sources of food.
The Black Snub-Nosed Monkeys (Rhinopithecus bieti – 黑金丝猴), native of Yunnan, are not the same as the Golden Snub-Nosed Monkeys (Rhinopithecus roxellana – 川金丝猴) that are native of SiChuan. The Black Snub-Nosed Monkeys left in the wild are about 3000 while the Golden Snub-Nosed Monkeys range from 8,000 to 15,000. The Tonkin Snub-Nosed Monkey is yet another species that lives in northern Vietnam.
The main danger for this species are habitat loss (due to the illegal logging and removal of dead trees) and illegal hunting.
Chinese rangers who were once hunters and farmers, thus threatening the environment, are now involved in protecting the Snub-Nosed Monkeys
The monkeys can be seen only in the morning between 9:00am and 11:00am. So you don’t need to spend more than one night in TaCheng, unless you want to take more pictures. In that case you’ll have to buy anther ticket though.
Subscribe to my newsletter and get my latest blog posts. You will also get my new ebook: 'Around the World in 50 Pictures'
Subscribe to my newsletter and get my latest blog posts. You will also get my new ebook: 'Around the World in 50 Pictures'