A security guard stands near the door during a press conference of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Congress, at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, March 2, 2011.
Jessica Batke is a ChinaFile Senior Editor. She is an expert on China’s domestic political and social affairs, having served as the State Department’s Bureau of Intelligence and Research Analyst for...
Oliver Melton is an analyst with the Bureau of Intelligence and Research at the U.S. Department of State, where he focuses on Chinese economic issues. Over the past decade, he has covered Chinese...
The characterizations and opinions in this piece, including the discussion of information gaps and analytical challenges, are those of the authors and do not necessarily represent those of the U.S. government.
In the coming weeks, every major Western newspaper and many top China analysts will be making strong claims about Chinese leader Xi Jinping’s political position in the wake of the 19th Party Congress. These reports will build off years of tea-leaf reading and Pekingology that collectively underpin a now familiar story of élite political strife met by Xi’s personal consolidation of power. Their accounts will end either with Xi “solidifying his dominance” or “succumbing to the countervailing forces of his rivals”—and they will project an air of certainty. Yet their conclusions, in most cases, will rest precariously on assumptions and guesses about underlying Party mechanics and motivations that can neither be proved nor disproved. Even the best-sourced experts can’t discern how policy preferences and objectives shape political coalitions or élite Party divisions, and we lack critical diagnostic information that would be necessary to confirm or refute competing hypotheses about major political questions.
China’s increasing importance in the world is self-evident, and yet we know shockingly little about the men (and they are almost all men) making decisions in Beijing. One might expect that we would be more familiar with the leadership personalities and processes in a country with China’s global footprint. Even more disconcertingly, we all too often use what little we do know to make assumptions that form the bedrock of larger, more sweeping judgments. Simply unearthing and clearly stating our assumptions, and asking what other conclusions the same set of facts might support, would help us enormously in knowing what we—journalists, think tankers, scholars—do know and knowing what we don’t.
      The Chinese Communist Party’s 19th Party Congress, a hugely important political meeting usually held once every five years, will begin on October 18 in Beijing. Like many events involving China’s ruling party, the most important decisions and...  
Two articles with different predictions about Wang Qishan published on ‘The Straits Times’ website, on October 13, 2017 and August 24, 2017.
This opacity has eroded our ability to address the role of high-level policy or ideological coalitions in élite politics. Instead, we do our best to squeeze information out of the few data sources the C.C.P. cannot easily control—namely, concrete policy actions and personnel movements—and use them as a proxies or instruments to estimate the leadership dynamics we cannot observe, such as the power of a given leader. While these tools can make important contributions under certain circumstances, they have enormous limitations and are unable to fill the gaps in our understanding of Chinese leadership dynamics.
There is certainly a plausible case for this analytic approach. Failure to deliver promised policies could very well indicate a lack of personal political capital. But the model is based on a simple framework: Chinese leaders advocate their personal preferences in the face of resistance (e.g. from other leaders, local governments, and often-unspecified interest groups). The resulting policy outcomes—vigorous or tepid—are therefore directly proportionate to the leader’s political strength. But this framework implicitly assumes that policy initiatives reflect the unadulterated priorities of the leaders themselves, not a consensus position that optimizes existing political support. Nor does it control for pragmatic considerations, competing priorities, or shifting pressures that factor into the policymaking environment.
To assess the ultimate implications of Leading Small Group changes for élite politics and Xi’s personal power, we would need to be able to differentiate between steps that the C.C.P. leadership has collectively taken to sustain its longevity or improve the efficacy of its institutions, and steps that Xi has individually made to advance his personal authority within the leadership system. Yet we are again fettered by how little direct insight we have into the internal dialogues that precipitate such moves, and cannot rule out opposing hypotheses for why Xi (or the Party leadership) made certain institutional reforms. Nor do we fully understand the Leading Small Group decision-making processes as they functioned before and after Xi’s administration, so we do cannot make strong conclusions about what the changes mean for élite power dynamics irrespective of their motives.
Personnel movements are one of the few data sources in Chinese politics that cannot be easily scrubbed from view and thus constitute an excellent starting point to track political machinations. But too often we interpret these tidbits of information using a factional model that is no longer comprehensive enough to support the results we derive—and overlook that we rely on the associated conclusions precisely because we lack more comprehensive insights into the increasingly complex Chinese political system.
Even more fundamentally, the logic of the factional model is flawed because it does not allow for the possibility that leaders might sometimes prioritize policy objectives over the protection of their networks. We should not simply assume that Chinese leaders differ from their counterparts in other countries in promoting people they know to be competent or effective. Media did not describe Arne Duncan as being a member of President Obama’s “faction” when he brought him from Chicago to Washington to act as his Secretary of Education. Certainly Chinese leaders have similar motivations to bring with them people they know and trust, without necessarily forming a “faction.”
Given the strong consensus in the China-watching ether regarding Xi’s personal power, there is a risk that new information either strengthens this argument or falls afield because it doesn’t fit into a clear narrative. But we must be careful not to paper over reasons to be skeptical given that nearly all of our conclusions rest upon important assumptions. So we should ensure that we are mindful of and constantly reevaluating our assumptions as contradictory information becomes available.
So how does one make sense of the reporting and analysis on the Chinese leadership, especially in advance of a major conclave like the 19th Party Congress? How does one know whether to believe news reports that will inevitably characterize Xi as either the new Deng (or Mao) or as an overly-ambitious leader checked by his rivals?
We recommend a high degree of skepticism, and suggest asking the following questions to clarify how much we know and what assumptions we’re making to reach our conclusions:
In terms of personnel promotions and the make-up of the Politburo, how reliably do we know that a given person is uniquely loyal to Xi (or to someone else)? How well do we understand the make-up and cohesion of the purported rival factions? Can we assess the strength of their connections beyond overlapping work assignments? What do we know about the procedures and considerations (e.g. competence, priorities, and alliances) that led to the promotion in question?
If no evident successors are named, what assumptions are being made about the reasons behind this? Why exactly was the leadership unable to come to a consensus at this time? Does it clearly indicate that Xi intends to stay on beyond a second term? Did he achieve this by force or in concert with his colleagues? If a successor is named, is this a blow to Xi? Do we know whether Xi ever intended to stay on beyond his two terms?
In terms of Xi's personal power “consolidation,” how has his standing changed relative to his colleagues in the Politburo or its Standing Committee? Can we differentiate between changes in strength of the institutions that he and his colleagues control or his own influence? What was the impetus for these changes?
In terms of changes to the Party constitution and other major policy initiatives, do we fully understand their significance and the motivations behind them? Was Xi pushing his own personal ideological priorities or trying to demonstrate his strength? Was there clear opposition or support from the political élite—if so, how much?
If we cannot answer these questions, we must interrogate our own thought processes: What assumptions are we making about the evidence we have? What additional information would we need to confirm or refute those assumptions? And what other conclusions are compatible with the evidence that we do have?