Join today and you can easily save your favourite articles, join in the conversation and comment, plus select which news your want direct to your inbox.
Join today and you can easily save your favourite articles, join in the conversation and comment, plus select which news your want direct to your inbox.
Vice minister of the party's organisation department, Qi Yu, says it is "a priority" to build the communist party within all companies, because the private sector employs 140 million working class Chinese.
By the end of last year, 71 per cent of foreign joint ventures in China had a communist party unit, compared to 93 per cent of state-owned companies.
The new push for more party involvement in foreign companies is part of Chinese president Xi Jinping's ideological push for a wave of "party building" to accompany a "new era" of Chinese socialism.
Mr Qi said party units within foreign joint ventures help to resolve disputes between employers and employees, and help foreign companies understand China.
State media recently ran a feature praising the charity fundraising work of party branches in multinationals.
However, there has recently been disquiet among some foreign companies at a renewed push to enforce rules encouraging party units, and the European Union Chamber of Commerce recently held a meeting to ask companies if party branches were seeking a greater say over company governance, Reuters reported.
At a rare media briefing on Thursday, he said: "Setting up party organisations within enterprises complies with China's laws and regulations," and was a "natural practice".
The party leadership had asked party units to "integrate their practice with company practices" and "provide strong support".
In his report to the 19th congress of the Chinese Communist Party, Mr Xi said the party had a central role in guiding China to becoming a global power by 2050.
The crackdown against corrupt party members would continue, with a watchdog applying rules that are "stricter and tougher than the law", said Yang Xiaodu, deputy secretary for the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection.
The Communist Party has a special system of discipline for party members that sits outside the legal system.
The discipline commission had punished 1.5 million party members after complaints about 2.6 million members. Six congress delegates were blocked from attending the twice-a-decade meeting after last minute telephone and letter complaints were received about their behaviour.
But China will end the controversial practice of "shuanggui" -– a tool of party discipline, under which corruption suspects can disappear for months as they are interrogated in secret locations. It had been labelled "abusive" by human rights groups.
Mr Xi's report to the congress contained the statement that shuanggui will be replaced by legal detention.
Sophie Richardson, China director at Human Rights Watch, said: "If President Xi's proposal means that detainees are not ill-treated, get to choose their lawyers, and otherwise have their rights respected, then this will indeed be a significant step forward."
"But if he is just proposing to replace one abusive detention system with another, it will be another setback for legal reform in China."
Shuanggui has been a factor in the reluctance of international police forces to cooperate with China in the extradition of corruption suspects who flee overseas. It was also a factor behind the blocking of an extradition treaty between Australia and China in parliament.
A new national law establishing a National Supervision Commission to oversee corruption investigations as a state agency, and not a party discipline body, is expected.
This distinction is seen as important by international police forces who can't deal with a political discipline body.
Mr Xi's report said the supervisory commission will "share offices and work together with the Party's disciplinary inspection commission", and have investigation powers under the law.
But it will also enable corruption investigations to be expanded beyond party members, to cover "everyone in the public sector who exercises public power".