After living 3 years throughout Southeast Asia, I accepted a job in Chongqing as it was an enormous city I had never heard of. Through two jobs and two years living in this central Chinese metropolis, these are my stories documenting locales and curiosities.
A relative newcomer to the Chongqing scene – this blog covers the adventures of Bonita, an English teacher based in Fuling, another medium-sized city within Chongqing Municipality.
Written by an American student at Chongqing University studying International Business, Alexis details daily life abroad as well as many of her personal travel experiences.
Short snippets of life in China with Michel’le, an America English teacher with a background in journalism. A good number of her posts involve insights gained from being in a Chinese classroom.
Although officially discontinued by the author, Laura, this is the blog of an English teacher mainly focusing on sights and locations. Or as Laura puts it, the adventures of “A European in China”.
A journal-style blog written by Mikhala, a university English teacher in Chongqing. Her blog touches on many of her personal thoughts and experiences in the city.
Written by Ysel and Skyler, a married American couple who moved to China together to teach English. Their blog follows their travels and experiences through Chongqing, greater China, as well as a few other Asian countries.
This blog details the travels of Maria, a U.S. Peace Corps. volunteer who is attempting to immerse herself in Chinese language and culture. Although based in Chengdu, a few of her posts touch on Chongqing as well.
A journal-style blog written by Samantha, a temporary university teacher from America. Although mostly dealing with her personal travels and experiences in Chongqing, she also writes about further destinations.
In this blog, a former American exchange student who attended university in Chongqing details her experiences in China. Since graduating, she has begun working for English First (EF) in Chongqing.
A blog covering obscure photographic topics from architecture to daily life, Zach documents China and other nearby places through the eyes of a researcher, designer and author who loves “studying daily life and behaviors across cultures and contexts.”
A since-discontinued blog written by Asia Pacific Access (APA), a company based in China. Although some of the posts have a slight advert-vibe, the majority provide useful and still-relevant information about Chongqing. Topics include introductions to local culture, food, and general daily life.
Andy and Sara were coworkers of mine at English First (EF) who documented their time in China – and a few further travels – in this journal-style blog.
A short-lived blog detailing an art show from 2015. However, it includes pictures from some interesting and generally unseen parts of Chongqing.
Although the authors were based in Chongqing, this blog features stories of travel all throughout China. It also features some of the best photography of any Chongqing bloggers I’ve seen.
A short-lived Tumblr (cringe) blog, this one details a lot of general knowledge that is helpful for newcomers to Chongqing, and China in general. And despite its lack of content or updates, still holds high rankings for Google searches.
This is the earliest blog about Chongqing I have come across. Its short duration follows the experiences of a family living in Chongqing during 2012-13.
A blog specializing in rare, old photos of the beginnings of China’s communist era. Although not dedicated specifically to Chongqing, this blog features some spectacular photos that show how radically different the city was a half century ago.
Although not much is written about the scenes shown, Lao T’s 500px page contains one of the most prolific and charismatic photo feeds about Chongqing I have yet seen.
Kellar is a Chinese-speaking American sharing Chongqing sights and information in his videos. His thoughts and interpretations on local culture provide a welcome buffer for newcomers.
Sabrina is an American university student in Chongqing. Her videos provide an intimate view of her daily life and thoughts during her time in a Chinese university.
This is easily the best resource for people seeking information about Chongqing. Although it’s not incredibly active, be assured that any question will be answered by a friendly and willing expat and local community on the website.
An online entertainment magazine, CQ Scene is rarely ever posted to anymore. Its website still provides a lot of helpful information on sites and locales throughout the city.
Offering a wealth of local and up-to-date information and publishing a new booklet each year with new tips on food and entertainment, Chongqing Guide is one site not to be missed.
Did I miss any blogs about Chongqing? Have you written about your time in this Chinese megacity? Let me know and I’ll add it to the list!
Nothing that notable to say yet.  I’m a native Michigander with a passion for human culture and new places, and more than that, new experiences.  I have degrees in writing and anthropology and have no idea what I want to do with them.  For now, I’m content with an unbound lifestyle; going where I want and doing what I can, and hopefully gaining some interesting stories along the way.
Wow thanks for all this work! I was in Chongqing last February, really fascinating city, your article is making me want to go back 🙂
Just visiting, I went to visit a language exchange friend. I loved the hilly aspect to Chongqing, a big contrast to Foshan where I’d just come from. And the smell of chilli peppers in the air….ahhh 🙂 What a great city!
This is awesome! How did I not find your site before moving to Chongqing? I had no idea that there were many people blogging about this wonderful city Chongqing. I would be honered if you would add mine (even though I just started this week). Glad to see more people who love it here!
Thanks for writing. I’ll gladly add you to the list. I’m travelling the moment but will be updating a lot of things when I return to chongqing in a couple weeks. I hope you’re enjoying the city so far!
Hey Ben – Zach of Square Inch Anthropology here. I really appreciate the kind mention in this post, and thanks for sharing the love!
Nothing that notable to say yet.  I’m a native Michigander with a passion for human culture and new places, and more than that, new experiences.  I have degrees in writing and anthropology and have no idea what I want to do with them.  For now, I’m content with an unbound lifestyle; going where I want and doing what I can, and hopefully gaining some interesting stories along the way.
Nothing that notable to say yet.  I’m a native Michigander with a passion for human culture and new places, and more than that, new experiences.  I have degrees in writing and anthropology and have no idea what I want to do with them.  For now, I’m content with an unbound lifestyle; going where I want and doing what I can, and hopefully gaining some interesting stories along the way.