If you are new, please read our posting guidelines and search the subreddit for commonly answered questions.      
Please post in English where possible. Chinese submissions should be accompanied by English translations and submitted with English titles as 99% of reddit users cannot read Chinese.
When linking to news articles, please use the original title, or a straightforward and accurate one of your own. Editorialized, provocative, inaccurate, sensationalist, and/or misleading titles may result in the removal of the post. If you add an opinion byline, please ensure that it is immediately clear which part is opinion.
Banks often serve large companies; they don’t have the ability to serve small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) well
What Manchu resources. Books, audiovisual foremost, but also curious about presential classes or tutors, if only for reference
The wedding gift for your spouse is not supposed to be a ring. It's supposed to be gold bars or necklaces. 
The traditional way to propose in Chinese culture is not with a ring on your knee. It's to get an account of your finances and a full health checkup. You then hand your financial statements and the clean bill of health to your girlfriend and her parents. 
My wife and I don't.  Honestly, we just can't afford one that would make her look proud and save face with her friends.  One day, when I can, I will get one for her.
But, to your point, what she told me, was that most do not, because there is thing, where a thief will chop off a woman's finger to get the ring.  That's what she told me, though.  Maybe it is a real fear of theirs, because I do not see Chinese wearing wedding rings.  You have to think, too, that it is a Western tradition.  Not Chinese.  So they will feel less pressure to do so in their own country.
It's not really a thing. The younger generation is more influenced by Western culture so some are starting to. 
Nowadays, so many Chinese young couples buy wedding rings. However, foreigners like you will always wear the ring to show that you're married. But many Chinese only wear the rings during the wedding ceremony.
Why are answers like this always up voted heavily on this sub? It doesn't actually answer the question and for people unfamiliar could actually give them the wrong ideas. 
I know right?! Why do people make cynical jokes meanwhile bitches openly flirt with the first remotely wealthy dude in front of their boyfriends at the club? It gives them wrong ideas!
Young couples always wear rings.  Older generations wedding rings weren't really a tradition, but now having engagement and wedding rings like western countries has become the norm.
It depends. My mother wore a gold ring and bracelet and two earrings before 35 years old.
After that, she thought it was too inconvenient to wear jewelry.
But for young ladies, I think they will wear the rings if they are married.
Basically yeah. Not a single person but like the entire Chinese female population. This makes it tougher
I see it occasionally here in Beijing.  From what I've seen it's usually younger people who are a tad more western.
Honestly from my experience, yes.  If someone is wealthy enough to afford a decent ring, they will wear it to show off.  This applies to most of my own and girlfriend's co-workers below the age of 40.  China is adopting more western traditions and people in China are starting to gain the ability to afford such things.
I know more people who have bought rings (not all of them constantly wear them though) than who haven't.
Rendered by PID 91749 on  app-324  at 2017-10-27 09:05:19.672245+00:00 running 2c9616a country code: SG.