SHANGHAI—From Stalin to Mao, old-style central planners all faced the same problem: The system didn’t work.
The Soviets had their bread lines, and a quota for chandeliers set in tons that made them too heavy to hang from the ceilings. Mao’s delusionary target for steel production had peasants hurl their pots and pans into home furnaces. Famine ensued. 
SHANGHAI—From Stalin to Mao, old-style central planners all faced the same problem: The system didn’t work.
The Soviets had their bread lines, and a quota for chandeliers set in tons that made them too heavy to hang from the ceilings. Mao’s delusionary target for steel production had peasants hurl their pots and pans into home furnaces. Famine ensued. 
Information technology, far from undermining China’s authoritarian model as many thought it would, is reinforcing it. 
The German political scientist 
      Sebastian Heilmann
       coined the term “digital Leninism” to describe the program Mr. Xi has engineered to try to ensure the Communist Party’s survival.
The party calls the mission “top-level design,” and it is intended to guide the next stage of growth led by advanced technologies such as robotics, 3-D printing and driverless vehicles.
Technicians are working on a plan to monitor the performance of these machines using sensors and cameras and measure it against industrial goals. Corporate data feeds will give regulators the ability to spot credit and investment flows in real time, along with fraud. Algorithms will supposedly use this granular information to optimize macroeconomic decision-making, keep markets on an even keel and avoid speculative bubbles.
In public at least, the chief executives of China’s data oligopolies, including Alibaba and Tencent, are evangelists for the project that requires them to sluice gushers of consumer data to state superhubs. Alibaba founder 
      Jack Ma
       in a seminar last year likened the role of big data in economic management to an X-ray or CT-scan in medical diagnosis. In the next 30 years, he declared “the planned economy will get bigger and bigger.” 
Western free-market theory says digital or not, state planning can never replace what 
      Adam Smith
       called the “invisible hand” of the market. In their book “Why Nations Fail,” the economists Daron Acemoglu and 
      James Robinson
       assert that centralized economies like China’s are ultimately doomed because the elites who run them feel threatened by the political disruption of innovation.
Others argue the contrary, that in a digital era authoritarian regimes less bound by concerns over data privacy and protection may actually have an edge on innovation. A number of young Stanford and MIT-educated software engineers and M.B.A.s are joining Chinese startups in areas like health care and computer vision, where easy access to vast reservoirs of data can propel scientific breakthroughs and reduce time to market for their inventions.
The huge planning experiment “presents a fundamental challenge to democratic political systems,” Mr. Heilmann writes.
For years, Western politicians believed that China would keep moving steadily toward a free-market economy to rectify the weaknesses created by state planning. Greater economic openness, the thinking went, would induce political liberalization. If China delayed, it would be punished by low productivity.
Mr. Xi is upending these assumptions. It is becoming clear that economic “reform and opening,” in the jargon of the Deng era, has run its course.
Even as China’s state-owned industries like steel, aluminum and shipbuilding create monumental excess that burdens the economy with debt, the consumer shortages that are the bane of planned economies are history; the spending of China’s middle class increasingly drives growth and most prices are set by the market. 
First, data overload; collecting it is one thing, analyzing it intelligently quite another. Second, and more ominously for ordinary Chinese and the tech companies, bureaucratic overreach. A telling sign is a move by regulators to force the biggest tech companies to hand over a 1% equity stake to the government along with decision-making powers. The enthusiasm of tech moguls for Mr. Xi’s planning ideas could rapidly wane if party apparatchiks start calling the shots on their boards. 
Economic planning “is not merely control of a sector of human life which can be separated from the rest,” wrote the Nobel Prize-winning economist 
      F.A. Hayek
       in “The Road to Serfdom.” “It is the control of the means for all our ends.” 
That was written in the 1940s. Neither Hayek nor Mao could have imagined the knowledge-fueled totalitarianism that Mr. Xi has in mind. 