At the end of a pivotal twice-a-decade meeting, party delegates voted unanimously Tuesday to make "Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era" a guiding principle for the party. 
Socialism with Chinese Characteristics has long been used to describe how Marxism has been adapted for China. The term was closely associated with Deng Xiaoping as a way to promote economic development.  
Willy Lam, at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, says domestically it's about tightening Communist Party control over all aspects of Chinese life in the internet age. 
"Xi Jinping now has an institutional guarantee of support. He can be emperor for life -- staying in power as long as his health allows," said Willy Lam, an adjunct professor at the Chinese University of Hong Kong's Center for China Studies.
Xi looks set to emerge from the 19th National Congress of the Communist Party of China stronger than ever, both domestically and on the international stage. 
At home, Xi has taken down senior leaders in his anti-corruption drive, launched an unprecedented crackdown on free speech, and radically overhauled the two-million strong People's Liberation Army, the world's largest fighting force.
Globally, the world will now likely see China continue to step into a global leadership vacuum as the US turns inward under President Donald Trump.
As Xi presided over the closing session in the Great Hall of the People,  more than 2,200 delegates raised their hands in unison to approve the party charter amendments, with staffers announcing "meiyou" ("none") to indicate the lack of dissenting or abstaining votes.
Xi repeatedly referred to "Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era," during a three-and-a-half-hour opening speech to  the National Party Congress last week. And the resolution passed Tuesday echoed many of the same themes. 
Xi declared that China should "take center stage in the world," and that its brand of socialism offers "a new choice for other countries." He added that, "no one should expect China to swallow anything that undermines its interests."
Lam said Xi's "new era" philosophy sought  to establish China as a superpower that "plays a rule-setting role in global affairs." 
Domestically, Lam said the move to enshrine Xi's name in the party charter would signify greater party control over all aspects of life in China. 
Lam said Xi had managed to "totally repudiate" a tradition of collective leadership instituted by Deng: "It's a return to one-man rule. It's a backward step."
When asked what he thought of Xi Jinping Thought, Sun Yongkang, a 24-year-old photographer in Beijing, said: "I really like the key word New Era. President Xi is a trailblazer, he opens up a new model for China's development."
Who's included and who's not will shed light on the magnitude of Xi's grip on power and his future plans. 
Some analysts have speculated that Xi will seek to stay on beyond 2022, when his second term is due to end, breaking a tradition followed by his two predecessors and emulating Russian President Vladimir Putin.
However, it looks like that Wang Qishan, Xi's anti-corruption czar, will be retiring despite some speculation that Xi would bend the rules and allow him to  stay on in the PBSC -- despite being older than the customary retirement age of 68. 
His name wasn't on a list of Central Committee members from which the politburo and its standing committee are named. 
Retaining Wang would have set a precedent for any future power play by Xi, 64, to stay in the top job beyond 2022. 