If you are new, please read our posting guidelines and search the subreddit for commonly answered questions.      
Please post in English where possible. Chinese submissions should be accompanied by English translations and submitted with English titles as 99% of reddit users cannot read Chinese.
When linking to news articles, please use the original title, or a straightforward and accurate one of your own. Editorialized, provocative, inaccurate, sensationalist, and/or misleading titles may result in the removal of the post. If you add an opinion byline, please ensure that it is immediately clear which part is opinion.
Banks often serve large companies; they don’t have the ability to serve small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) well
What Manchu resources. Books, audiovisual foremost, but also curious about presential classes or tutors, if only for reference
Hi, as a Chinese I want to know what do foreigners think of China as of 2017. General answer or saying from specific perspective are welcomed.  
Late night street corner garden table chuans make me consider moving back to China multiple times per week.
You're joking right? Because it is only possible if all – or most – citizens have decent living conditions, or at least HDI is very high. Does this happen in China? No. So this is not harmony. This is not speaking out
I think The Party counts "not speaking out" toward social harmony. If it doesn't come up on local stats that need to be passed on to higher powers, it doesn't exist. 
One of the most unsocial crony-capitalistic economies of the world, dictated by a systematically corrupt clique of feigned "Communists", whose falsely saluted economic progress is vastly lacking behind it's democratically run ethnic peers due to it's systemic flaws.
A society lost in foul traditions of superficiality, selfishness, indifference and cultural isolationism and with a deep rooted neglect of self-criticism.
But the previously mentioned things are the dominant characteristics of China in my opinion unfortunately.
What about crime? It seems like very few thieves care aboit my 150 rmb bike. Where I'm from that pos bike would have been stolen many times over.
There is loads of petty crime here. Not so much violent crime though and pretty much zero 'no go' areas, like in most big western cities.
I even caught a thief in the act once and made a civil arrest. It took the police 45 minutes to come even though their station was only a 10 minute walk away.
Positives: Very safe, cheap to travel around, cheap food, cheap rent (outside of Beijing and Shanghai), DiDi, food delivery services, WeChat for payments, diverse landscapes, history...
Negatives: Crowds, politics, need for a VPN, general ignorance, bureaucracy, poverty, traffic, selfishness, pollution, and nationalism.
I am saddened that the CCP under Hu-Wen stalled the necessary reforms out of fear of losing power, and now the country is going backwards. It seems they missed the window of opporunity to enact the reforms they need to become a great country. 
As China becomes more influential on the global stage, it would also draw more criticism and scrutiny, but the Chinese does not seem to understand this and take personal offence. Don’t think this is how a worldly people should behave. 
Having an economy grow at 6+%/year (& 10+% years ago) mutes a lot of problems. At some point the economy will slow and go into recession. At that point, I think there will be very hard times as there are not easy mechanisms for expressing discontent or changing policies as there are in democratic counties. The ability to let off pressure is important. I predict that this discontent will be funneled by a cynical government into military conquest. 
Such a great, oft-overlooked point re the ability to let off pressure. In recent years you've seen Beijing try to put in artificial valves for this in place of the civil society they repressed. Classic example is the presence of every government entity possible on WeChat and other social platforms where citizens can "raise their concerns" and flag problems. I don't think this is even remotely enough though.
The high growth seems to have been done irresponsibly, and a lot of the progress may be reversed because of the environmental damage.
I read an article about a Chinese tour guide in Europe, talking about how it took years to build one high speed rail line in Italy because of public opposition, wrangling, and compared it negatively  to China. But actually... Italy has a clean, healthy environment while China has the most degraded environment ever known to man so maybe this wrangling is a good thing. You can see acres upon acres of countryside with no sign of birds or any animal life because everything is so toxic. The food is full of dangerous toxins, large swathes of the country is turning to desert, the water supplies are toxic. Cutting corners to have high GDP growth at all costs may in the end see China's economy shrinking rapidly. 
Chinese industry is incredibly wasteful and inefficient. The cost of water is subsidised, and so per unit of production, Chinese industry uses 10x more water than European industry. Waste is generally dumped to save money and there is precious little recycling going on. To deal with the looming water crisis, the country's GDP is going to have to be reduced drastically, otherwise the country will be stricken once again by drought and famine by the 2030s.
There is a total lack of any sense of social responsibility in China, which I think Confucianism is to blame for. People consider themselves to have a narrow area of responsibility and are discouraged from thinking about macro-level problems.
I just gave the example of Italy cos it was in the article about building the railway. The example of Italy is actually irrelevant, the overall point is that the lack of NGOs, independent investigation, legal regulations, and civil society is a reason why China has been able to grow quickly, but also a reason why its environment is fucked.
And Italian cities are only polluted by European standards. The cities named in that article are much, much, much cleaner than any city in China of comparable size.
The article mentions Naples and Rome... neither of which appear in the top 500 polluted cities by particulate matter. China has 180 cities in that list, and Italy has only two cities in that list which I've never heard of, at around 450 and 470 respectively. And air pollution is only a small fraction of China's environmental problems.
I'm interested in comparison, if there is any at all - is nowadays air quality in tier 1 China cities worse or better off than the great smog in London in 1950s?
I'm interested in comparison, if there is any at all - is nowadays air quality in tier 1 China cities worse or better off than the great smog in London in 1950s?
Great sign that China is in 2017 but it's actually years behind in various aspect, and Chinese knows better than the British, the British stay at home and fixed their shit. Chinese with the money run away because they know it can't really be fixed, China is X many time the magnitude 
If the option were given, pollution and shorten life expectancy but make more money or live longer with less pollution but make less money. Most Chinese would take make more money any day, this reflect the economic policy of China, maintain growth at any cost 
Growth is no longer the sacred crow in many developed country, that's the moment they actually do something about pollution, environmental destruction, food safety, pension, healthcare etc. 
Correctly interpreted, and largely true, only thing I'm not sure though is how great that 'great sign' is, whether you're currently in or outside China. Personally, if the damages are comparable, I don't feel like it would take similar 50 years for the Chinese to fix the shit, but only if shit can be fixed. That's what I was trying to figure out.
It's probably comparable to London back in the day; serious environmental regulations and so on only really started emerging post-war. 
However, the scale is much greater, and China with its barren north is ecologically far more fragile than the UK.
Advantages: economy is doing kinda well (if you overlook the ridiculous amount of borrowing), and a well-developed IT industry (although I am not sure how well it will do against Western competition when and if the Great Firewall is removed)
Disadvantages: the country is run by a government of cryptofascists who exploit traditional values to mislead the proletariat and intellectual classes and silence those who speak out for social justice, human rights situation is appalling, inequality is rampant, and the media lie to the people. Systematically
Taiwan are culturally Chinese. They speak Chinese. Write Chinese. Eat Chinese food. They don't identify politically with the PRC, but that's specifically a political thing.
I understand the context when a Taiwanese person says "Taiwan is not China" that they are making a political statement, but saying "Taiwan is not Chinese" contradicts what the ROC call themselves: republic of China.
Nobody is saying they aren't culturally Chinese, but they aren't part of China the country. Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the USA are culturally Anglo-Saxon but that doesn't mean the UK can claim ownership if the people who live there don't want it.
Because the communist party has soiled Chinese-ness by association, people in Taiwan jump over themselves to disavow their own identity and heritage- "I'm not Chinese! I'm Taiwanese!"
Taiwan call themselves Republic of China. They claim the entirety of China. There's only going to be one China eventually, whether its the Republic of China or the People's Republic of China. The island of Taiwan is too important to lose for both sides.
By that logic the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and Great Britain are all the same. We all speak the same language, write the same language, and eat much of the same food. It hasn't been that long since all those places were governed by one country as well. 
I fail to see what's contentious in basically saying that the US, Canada, Australia, NZ and GB are basically from the same Anglo sphere and while having different political identities.
The key difference here is that the Taiwanese themselves claim to be the legitimate inheritors of the Chinese nation, in opposition to the Communists.
If tomorrow mainland China were conquered and the Taiwanese installed as the rulers it would basically still be China.
The key difference here is that the Taiwanese themselves claim to be the legitimate inheritors of the Chinese nation, in opposition to the Communists.
The constitution states this, but most Taiwanese don't see it that way. Most Taiwanese see Taiwan as Taiwan and China as a way to make money. 
Taiwanese have a very complex and reflexive relationship with their Chinese and Taiwanese identity. Saying that Taiwanese are simply Culturally Chinese doesn't reflect modern Taiwan
As for calling themselves the RoC, if they call themselves the Republic of Taiwan your government will probably nuke them
What exactly is your point? Taiwan has its indigenous culture and language sure. That does not mean they're not Chinese any more than that the Welsh are not English.
What I have a problem with is the way people don't qualify what they mean, specifically the word "Chinese". I don't have a problem with saying "I hate communists" or "I wan't nothing to do with the CCP", but saying "I'm not Chinese" sounds wrong to me in a way, especially when exclaimed in response to the question "Are you Chinese?" as if there was something wrong with being Chinese, or that you actively hate Chinese people - which is what I often get when I ask this question of TW or HK people.
Why not ask the Taiwanese?  From what they tell me, many of them hate mainland Chinese and feel they the PRC has made being Chinese a dirty, disgraceful thing.  They make a point of saying they are Taiwanese so people don't assume they are from the mainland.
How about you call yourself Chinese Australian and I'll call myself Taiwanese American. I was not raised in China with values that those in China espouse, so I am not Chinese. 
This is because Chinese ethnicity (when looking at western provinces, whatever that is), Chinese history (China was much smaller than it is now until the Yuan dynasty, and then contracted a bit) and China (PRC) as a nation are conveniently bundled into a single entity by the government of mainland China.
Mainland China seeks to appropriate 'China' from anything Chinese, for the benefit of the current government.  It is natural there is resistance to that from those that don't align to this.
Rendered by PID 41337 on  app-278  at 2017-10-27 09:02:10.126226+00:00 running 2c9616a country code: SG.