If you are new, please read our posting guidelines and search the subreddit for commonly answered questions.      
Please post in English where possible. Chinese submissions should be accompanied by English translations and submitted with English titles as 99% of reddit users cannot read Chinese.
When linking to news articles, please use the original title, or a straightforward and accurate one of your own. Editorialized, provocative, inaccurate, sensationalist, and/or misleading titles may result in the removal of the post. If you add an opinion byline, please ensure that it is immediately clear which part is opinion.
Banks often serve large companies; they don’t have the ability to serve small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) well
What Manchu resources. Books, audiovisual foremost, but also curious about presential classes or tutors, if only for reference
Why does Chinese university websites seems to all ways have a problem,I get errors like "page cant load","your browser doesn't support frame" .Is the problem with my pc ? 
Literally half of the Chinese intranet is flashing banners and bouncing javascript boxes with late 90s table layouts. The other half is malware and adobe flash. 
Html 4.0 and FrontPage forever! The W3C.is an.evil western organization! We don't need western web standards!
Government block them during 19th CPC National Congress, now you could visit them only inside university.
If you have an emergency, I guess you have to contact the people there, explaining their website is on maintenance, and not usable.
My tech colleagues are all using Linux for work. Some (most ?) biotech software are design to be used on Unix-ish environments.
Send an email to Fudan’s ISO if you have questions. I didn’t end up going there but they were incredibly helpful with any questions I had
Can you tell me the email you sent your questions to? With all the sited being "under maintenance" I can't find any email...
Use a serious tag next time or you will attract trolls. Are you browsing from inside China or outside? Are you browsing the English or Chinese version of the university website? This makes a big difference.
Rendered by PID 54318 on  app-266  at 2017-10-27 09:00:11.685263+00:00 running 2c9616a country code: SG.