If you are new, please read our posting guidelines and search the subreddit for commonly answered questions.      
Please post in English where possible. Chinese submissions should be accompanied by English translations and submitted with English titles as 99% of reddit users cannot read Chinese.
When linking to news articles, please use the original title, or a straightforward and accurate one of your own. Editorialized, provocative, inaccurate, sensationalist, and/or misleading titles may result in the removal of the post. If you add an opinion byline, please ensure that it is immediately clear which part is opinion.
Banks often serve large companies; they don’t have the ability to serve small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) well
What Manchu resources. Books, audiovisual foremost, but also curious about presential classes or tutors, if only for reference
Does China's Foreign affairs handling override Hong Kong right of abode?
For example if someone has Right of Abode in Hong Kong, or Right to Land can Beijing compel immigration or other to refuse entry or expel someone?
Not from HK, but they can and refuse right to enter the PRC. That's what makes it a "right of abode" not a "privilege"
It is China's sovereign right to deny or approve anyone's entry into Hong Kong, the Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said today.
Hua made the remarks in response to a question on British human rights activist and former Hong Kong journalist, Benedict Rogers, (pictured), who was barred from entering into Hong Kong on Wednesday. He is also the co-founder of the Conservative Party's Human Rights Commission.
British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson said London needed an explanation from Hong Kong and Beijing as "Hong Kong's high degree of autonomy, and its rights and freedoms, are central to its way of life and should be fully respected."
Hua said today China lodged solemn representations to Britain over Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson's remarks on Hong Kong affairs.
Hua said Hong Kong is a special administrative region of China, and therefore Hong Kong's affairs are China's internal affairs, Xinhua reports.
Foreign affairs obviously covers only people who are "foreign". Admitting someone who has ROA is an internal matter. Like I said, it's a right. Persons with ROA can't get deported either, even if they committed a crime.
Yes, that you can't read or are blissfully ignorant of evidence that disproves what you say. You can't deport someone while they have the right of abode, but that right can be stripped in limited circumstances, which will result in deportation.
But then they don't have the ROA anymore, those persons have RTL you moron. But you seem to spew lots of unsubstantiated bullshit in most threads anyway. You sound like lammamat's alt.
A right which can be removed which can be removed is not a permanent right. That means the protections under it are also not permanent and are dependent upon the maintenance of said right.
To use an analogy, it is like Barcelona in April, May, June of this year denying they would sell Neymar to PSG. Actually, his contract contained a buy-out clause enabling it to be terminated, and PSG could happily sign him.
Can't deport someone with ROA? End their ROA and then deport them. Go check your own source and see which of those four rights is missing for persons with Right to Land.
That being said, with the way how the government is gaming the law and using it against opposition, there’s no saying that this won’t happen :(
You are right about one thing... the right of abode doesn’t guarantee entrees will be available. Mains and desserts only if the PRC get their way! 
You can be foreign and have ROA in HK due to citizenship laws, once you have permanent residence in HK you're a de-facto citizen (ie ROA) but since HK cannot hand out citizenship you're never a full citizen.
Rendered by PID 128413 on  app-186  at 2017-10-27 09:06:11.045441+00:00 running 2c9616a country code: SG.