If you are new, please read our posting guidelines and search the subreddit for commonly answered questions.      
Please post in English where possible. Chinese submissions should be accompanied by English translations and submitted with English titles as 99% of reddit users cannot read Chinese.
When linking to news articles, please use the original title, or a straightforward and accurate one of your own. Editorialized, provocative, inaccurate, sensationalist, and/or misleading titles may result in the removal of the post. If you add an opinion byline, please ensure that it is immediately clear which part is opinion.
Banks often serve large companies; they don’t have the ability to serve small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) well
What Manchu resources. Books, audiovisual foremost, but also curious about presential classes or tutors, if only for reference
So I have been in China for two and a half years and I've noticed that people such as grocery store employees, mall employees, security guards, old ladies that work at my school, whatever.....like to bark orders at the laowai (me).  I think its because A) there is zero concept of customer service in China, B)there's just a huge lack of civility in Chinese culture, and C)there's some kind of power trip with barking orders at a foreigner.  
For example, today I am waiting to get my vegetables weighed.  There is nobody behind me, and the lady gestures to me to hurry up and put my stuff on the counter, then gestures to hurry up and move my cart forward.  Think of the soup Nazi episode of Seinfeld.  Pretty much exactly like that.  I would have said something back to her if I had some idea what to say.  Because really, in my opinion, its not okay just because its their culture.
Anyway, do you also experience this?  What can I say in Chinese to tell them "that's rude" or "don't be bossy"?
I'm special?  really I was just asking because I truly don't know if its because I'm different or not
Yes, you are most likely a very special white American. How dare those Chinese supermarket assistants slaving away for 1500 a month not treat you with the respect you deserve! Would a "thank you, sir" and "here you go, sir" hurt them that much?
They're not doing it because you're a foreigner. They're doing it because they're impatient dicks with no manners or respect for anybody around them.
Just ignore them and do things at your own pace anyway.  Or, if you're feeling particularly petty, feign being utterly clueless, slow down to an absolute crawl and do everything wrong.
Yeah, prolly shoulda done that.  I forgot to mention the gym.  Dudes walk up to me ALL THE TIME telling me I'm doing it wrong and I have too much weight on the machine.  Half the time they are cheerful about it, but quite often, they are cunts on a power trip - very stern-faced and all...what the fuck?
That's a good idea, but I think they would just approach me more aggressively, like get directly in front of me and wave at my face, haha
When my Chinese becomes proficient enough, I will..  and then wait for the blank "huh?"  face.  "you mean the great leap forward?" haha
Anyway, do you also experience this? What can I say in Chinese to tell them "that's rude" or "don't be bossy"?
If you're posting this after a full two and a half years in the guo, your future doesn't look bright.
well, I should be, right?  but sometimes if I am not in a good mood, then by golly, I'm going to stand up for myself and for civility
The only person who is outright rude to me is the boss of the local convenience store. I shop there as little as possible because of her. Everyone else gives me the change with two hands, she just throws it at me. People rarely bark orders at me unless I'm dozing off and someone thinks I'm tingbudo-ing, wakes me right up.
They do this to everyone, it has nothing to do with you being a Foreigner. Depending on the context you can either be completely apathetic pretty much not acknowledging them or just tell them to fuck off.
One of the baoan in my residence would act all cocky and yell stuff at me, i understood him and he wasn't insulting or anything, just like "close the gate" or "hurry up" in a rude tone, but rather than getting angry I would just ignore him and oh boy he got really pissed about it after a while.
Apathy is your best friend in China, no matter how stupid or rude people are, just laugh it off and be on your way, if you get angry or pissed then they win.
Assholes are just assholes regardless of culture.  Environment also has a big part to play in what is behavioral norm in all parts of the world.
Even in the US.  Go to NY and compare folks milling around Manhattan to those in say NC.  You'll find folks are much more polite, less aggressive, etc. 
Or would you rather live in a society where nobody can be honest, like American culture with its strict code of politeness?
As if there is no in-between.  How about politely honest....  That's what I'm accustomed to (yes, I'm American).  And, "direct" is not the same as "rude".
Rendered by PID 22314 on  app-106  at 2017-10-27 09:01:40.216729+00:00 running 2c9616a country code: SG.