If you are new, please read our posting guidelines and search the subreddit for commonly answered questions.      
Please post in English where possible. Chinese submissions should be accompanied by English translations and submitted with English titles as 99% of reddit users cannot read Chinese.
When linking to news articles, please use the original title, or a straightforward and accurate one of your own. Editorialized, provocative, inaccurate, sensationalist, and/or misleading titles may result in the removal of the post. If you add an opinion byline, please ensure that it is immediately clear which part is opinion.
Banks often serve large companies; they don’t have the ability to serve small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) well
What Manchu resources. Books, audiovisual foremost, but also curious about presential classes or tutors, if only for reference
A : senior executive with decades of experiences, 7 figure RMB salary and fluent Chinese working in rural regions
I have a good friend who aaa graded C. Exactly same qualifications & experience as me. Higher salary. I’m B. Why was he downgraded? Stupid HR states his salary as lower to “help” him. Fuckwits
Once you have this card does it mean that your work permit will be accepted?I have the card but need to wait till Wednesday to see if I get the work permit, my school don't know much about what is going on
You need the card then you can get a residents permit or something like that. I get the final permit Monday.
But I have heard you can't work until you receive the resident permit, like can your resident permit be rejected even if you get the work permit card? Do you know? Thanks for the reply
Once you get the work permit you’re authorized to work. Resident permit shouldn’t get rejected unless you failed the medical badly. 
I'm a complete and utter moron mate, my medical was all clear so I should get the resident permit. I will let you know on Wednesday if I get it or not
You’ll be fine mate. Sounds like you’ve already applied for it. If there’s been a problem they’d have told you when you applied. 
The "Foreigner's Work Permit" is not a visa card, you need that to apply for a "Residence Permit (Working)".
I was asked for a passport at hospitals and showed the work permit card instead which was accepted with out protest. 
Visa card? I just renew my passport and i just got the sticker. Does the sticker say A, B, C etc? LOL I have to check
Rendered by PID 98884 on  app-183  at 2017-10-27 09:02:39.622048+00:00 running 2c9616a country code: SG.