Shengqiang Chen, chief executive officer of JD Finance, the financial subsidiary of JD.com, one of the largest e-commerce companies in China, discusses the company’s relationship with banks and retailers, how it has evolved as a financial technology organisation, and its future plans.
Chen believes that by offering various financial products, JD Finance is able to get the trust of banks
JD Finance aims to elevate itself as a global tech company, being able to provide what clients from different countries need
Emmanuel Daniel (ED): All of us have seen how JD Finance has grown out of JD itself. Under your leadership, we want to get a sense of the personality that you are putting into JD Finance that might be different from JD itself.
ED: Something that we found happening in China is that many of the so-called fintech companies want to be seen as respectable in the financial industry. The peer-to-peer players, the peer-to-peer investment companies and lending companies, and payment companies, all of them call themselves fintech. In fact, one of the reasons why I wanted to meet you is that you’ve made comments about fintech and you are very critical about it. This year we’ll be publishing our own assessment of fintech players. Of course, there are at least three different types of fintech players. The disruptors, the ones that are not asking permissions from the banks to revolutionise the industries; the partners; and the IT companies but called fintech. And 80% of these players are just IT companies. 
But in the space of collaboration, it’s very interesting that some of the players, especially peer-to-peer are looking for opportunities to work with the banks. So the purpose of meeting you is to get a sense how do you position JD. Actually, the sense we get is that Alibaba has built a very strong mutual funds business when it first entered the financial space, whereas in your case the payment part is stronger. Maybe you can explain to us a little bit about the DNA of JD Finance, its origins, and where you are taking it to.
As I’ve mentioned during an event in September, we define ourselves as a fintech company. The premise of that is we provide enterprise services to financial institutions instead of conducting financial business. The purpose of our own financial business sector is to prove to the financial institutions our capability. In the future, we will hand over those businesses to financial institutions, and we will provide them with customers, technologies, and risk control system. We are more like a partner to the financial institutions instead of a vendor. The relationship between financial IT companies like IBM is more like a seller to buyer relationship.
ED: I know that you worked with one of the big four banks—ICBC. The banks themselves are trying to do what you are doing, at the same time they collaborate with you. Because I’ve seen what the banks are doing on the inside, they are beginning to look like you. There’s a phrase in English: “Keep your friends close, but keep your enemies closer.” I have the sense that banks are collaborating with you just to make sure that they are in touch with what you are doing. Do you think that this collaborating relationship with banks is a temporary position because the regulators themselves do not know how to regulate you? 
Last year, I explained to the team why we do fintech. The biggest barrier for the development of finance is capital: how much money you have, leveraging that money, and how much loan you can issue. Technology is only a tool to increase efficiency and decrease cost and risk; it’s not the biggest barrier for finance. For a company like us, we don’t need to finance and earn capital gain. We are good at technologies, and data, and the new understanding of finance. Only if we conduct what we are good at will we have a future.
The industry doesn’t lack financial companies with strong tech ability, but lack one that has clients and can bring the clients and technology to the banks, because most companies with clients want to conduct financial business themselves for profit maximisation. But doing so creates a clear upper limit. Only by collaborating with financial institutions (FIs) that you can get the opportunity to break the upper limit. So, it’s a long-term competition and a long-term collaboration. Whether we can win the competition and whether the collaboration could last depends on whether we can bring true values to the banks.
On October 16th 2013, I was in Richard Liu’s (founder of JD.com) home in New York, and I asked what his requirements were for me in terms of JD Finance. He said there are two requirements. The first is to do the things with long-term value, which means the most difficult things in the industry, so we chose risk pricing as the core of JD Finance. The second is to share, if we can make a $15.08 (RMB100) profit, we can only keep $10.56 (RMB70) and share the rest with our partners or staff.
So, the end of our collaboration with FIs is the maximum profit of the whole industry. We can help FIs to increase profit and efficiency, and decrease cost. What we are good at is different from what FIs are good at. We can better understand the millennials who are actually the potential growth of banks’ customer end business.
As for the business end, banks often serve large companies. They don’t have the ability to serve small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) well. Because for the big banks, it takes the same procedures and cost to issue a one-million loan and a one-billion loan. They can’t cover the cost when issuing loans to SMEs. But we can, as we have almost no marginal cost or variable cost by using technologies instead of human to operate. So, we are different in models, which makes us capable to serve them. If we are willing to give up the financial business, we can be good partners.
ED: Actually, I was about to ask you about your own personal journey, from a CFO to a CEO, and your answers are actually telling me the story. Let me ask you very directly, was there ever any temptation to apply for a banking licence?
ED: And also the People’s Bank of China (PBOC) and China Banking Regulatory Commission (CBRC) are thinking of special banking licence for internet banks, maybe that is different from the regular banking licence. 
ED: You've actually positioned JD Finance separately from JD.com and separately from banks, so you are in between JD.com and banks. The advantage that JD.com has is it's got a lot of information on customers, while banks have a lot of information of customer finance, but not customer lifestyle. At the same time, banks have gone through a full experience on how to outsource their IT, long before the internet revolution. The banks looking at JD finance are very attractive to your technology but also jealous of the customer relationship that JD has. How would you describe your working relationship today based on what you want to achieve?
ED: Give us an example of your working relationship right now. One of the problems is that the big banks in China also have a very large IT team, so the thinking of the IT department of banks is like an IT company. 
ED: But you almost have the same product sets now, you have a credit card, you have mutual funds, you bought a security company, and you are beginning to look like a bank.
ED: I'm still not convinced. It’s a proof of concept, understand, but you are mirroring the business of the banks. Actually, long before JD, banks had a history of trying to use third-party partnership like this before. And I'm actually thinking about the previous experience of banks. Let me ask you this question: Do you think that the origination model might work better for you because you have a strong understanding of the customer? The only part of the banking that you probably don't like is the capital requirement. And if you are able to originate the products and pass the asset to the bank so you don't have to have the capital, would that be more attractive to you?
ED: Describe a little bit to me about the relationship between JD Finance and retailers, like Walmart, like in Thailand you have a new relationship with the Central Group.
ED: Are you growing this model increasingly with other traditional retailers not only in China and Thailand? Are you also thinking about different countries as well?
JD’s drone could fly 240 kms, which could lead the world. Our driverless truck only needs one manual intervention every 500 kms. China is leading the world in terms of technology. In China, we are living extremely convenient lives. There are only foreign currencies in my wallet because I don’t need cash to survive in China. I can use my phone to call cabs or order takeaways. The current China can not only output capital, it can also output business models and technology. It’s time for a Chinese global company. So, we don't regard us as a Chinese company, instead we regard ourselves as a global tech company.
ED: What is the purpose of running JD Finance separately from JD now? Is it because of listing requirements or is it because of business strategy?
ED: With your instinct as a finance person, one of the concerns we have when we talk to a lot of start-ups, or peer-to-peer lenders in China is that they grow their loan book very fast, in two years, it can become $10 billion. How do you think about customer risk or consumer risk? And what is so special about JD Finance that you think you control consumer risk very well? 
ED: You've answered most of my questions, but what's interesting is, this is a journey, so the answers that you give me today, I'll be very curious to know how that's going to be evolving in the next few years.
ED: Thank you for that. You just bought a security company, what are you learning from the security industry?
ED: We take a very serious view of the business itself; we are not a news company, we actually run rankings. We are very afraid when certain businesses grow too fast, we want to understand whether it's based on sustainable models, something you mentioned what you do with data, I took note of it. Thank you very much.