China is considering more economic liberalization reforms and discussions on the issue are currently underway in the national leadership. According to experts, a more open economy is the key to keeping China’s growth steady amid  new global and domestic challenges.
Zhou Xiaochuan, governor of the People’s Bank of China, said in a recent interview with the Chinese influential economic magazine Caijing that China should implement three reforms, including trade liberalization, investment liberalization and yuan liberalization.
"This is not a polemic matter. First of all, China wants to continue its current policy and wants to solidify its unprecedented experience of economic growth of 40 years. The driving factor behind this policy is the need to maintain growth stability and sustainable economic development," he pointed out.
According to data from China’s central bank, Chinese foreign exchange reserves reached over $3.1 trillion and have been increasing for the seventh straight month. The South China Morning Post reported citing experts that taking into account this tendency, Beijing may soon ease some of its regulations, including on payments and investments.
Earlier this week, Ning Jizhe, head of the Chinese Statistics Bureau, said that Beijing will have no problem meeting its economic growth target of 6.5 percent this year and may even exceed it. Last week, the World Bank improved its outlook for China’s growth for 2017, from 6.5 to 6.7 percent.
By clicking 'Register', you confirm that you agree to our Privacy Policy and give your consent to the processing of personal data in accordance with the Privacy Policy
The fact of registration and authorization of users on Sputnik websites via users’ account or accounts on social networks indicates acceptance of these rules.
Users are obliged abide by national and international laws. Users are obliged to speak respectfully to the other participants in the discussion, readers and individuals referenced in the posts.
The websites’ administration has the right to delete comments made in languages ​​other than the language of the majority of the websites’ content.
promotes hatred and discrimination on racial, ethnic, sexual, religious or social basis or violates the rights of minorities;
contains insults, threats to other users, individuals or specific organizations, denigrates dignity or undermines business reputations;
violates privacy, distributes personal data of third parties without their consent or violates privacy of correspondence;
pursues commercial objectives, contains improper advertising, unlawful political advertisement or links to other online resources containing such information;
contains offensive language or profanity and its derivatives, as well as hints of the use of lexical items falling within this definition;
promotes the use of narcotic / psychotropic substances, provides information on their production and use;
is part of an organized action involving large volumes of comments with identical or similar content ("flash mob");
doesn’t follow standard rules of the English language, for example, is typed fully or mostly in capital letters or isn’t broken down into sentences.
The administration has the right to block a user’s access to the page or delete a user’s account without notice if the user is in violation of these rules or if behavior indicating said violation is detected.
In the case of repeated violations of the rules above resulting in a second block of a user’s account, access cannot be restored.