If you are new, please read our posting guidelines and search the subreddit for commonly answered questions.      
Please post in English where possible. Chinese submissions should be accompanied by English translations and submitted with English titles as 99% of reddit users cannot read Chinese.
When linking to news articles, please use the original title, or a straightforward and accurate one of your own. Editorialized, provocative, inaccurate, sensationalist, and/or misleading titles may result in the removal of the post. If you add an opinion byline, please ensure that it is immediately clear which part is opinion.
Banks often serve large companies; they don’t have the ability to serve small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) well
What Manchu resources. Books, audiovisual foremost, but also curious about presential classes or tutors, if only for reference
Alright, don't get all judgemental but what I'm really into are chunky Chinese virgins. I love the Sex and Shanghai blog and want more erotica featuring young Chinese girls. Any more out there? 
Some of the entries are a good read, forgiving the very purple prose. 2006 Shanghai was a very different place. 
Cheers. Big fan of your posts and blog. I've been meaning to buy your book, some of Isham's and Unsavory Elements. 
I listened to the BBC reading of Wish Lantern's and it was abit meh so will skip that one. Have read most Hessler's books and a few of Spence's. Any other good books and writers to recommend? 
TBH most books about China bore the hell out of me as there is rarely anything new to be said. The usual names appear again and again on the reading lists that expat magazines in Shanghai make up once or twice a year. There's a few hidden gems though:
The Chung Kuo series by David Wyndham. Series of overlooked sci-fi books about a China-dominated future society. 
The Kai Lung books by Ernest Bramah. Utterly charming tales that were extremely popular in the 1930s but now largely forgotten. They are brilliant because they are witty little short stories that attempted to accurately depict Chinese language in English with all its quirks. 
Up to the Mountains and Down to Countryside by Quincy Carroll. A bit emo in parts but still a damn good book about the dancing monkey experience in tier-88. 
Mr China by Tim Clissold. An oldie but a goodie. Probably the only sensible book written about China by a guy named Tim. 
Why China Will Never Rule The World by Troy Parfitt. A flawed work but I personally love the author's writing style and purple prose. Basically an extremely cynical travelogue of a visit to China. 
Rendered by PID 57470 on  app-166  at 2017-10-27 09:07:52.478730+00:00 running 2c9616a country code: SG.