State newspaper says China does not have Harvey Weinstein-type predators because ‘men are taught to be protective of women’
State newspaper says China does not have Harvey Weinstein-type predators because ‘men are taught to be protective of women’
The China Daily commentary said harassment was less common in China compared with western countries because “Chinese men are taught to be protective of their women. Behaving inappropriately toward women, including harassing them sexually, contradicts every Chinese traditional value and custom.”
“There’s also state media aggressively pushing traditional gender norms, where women are supposed to play these roles of a good wife and good mother who should be preparing themselves to have babies.”
Uh, having attended China's most prestigious film school, the Beijing Film Academy, I can tell you that you are gravely mistaken.
The Chinese movie industry is full of abuse. Many actresses, especially the younger ones, are being treated like prostitutes.
Five feminist activists were detained on the eve of International Women’s Day in 2015 for planning to distribute leaflets on sexual harassment. 
“Speaking about China, it’s very common in the workplace to use the power of a superior position in a coercive way that leads to sexual harassment,” said Xiong Jing, the executive director of the NGO Feminist Voice.
“Media coverage on gender topics is very important, hearing the voice of the victims is very important and this is how the entire community will become more aware of sexual harassment.”
The problem was made worse, Xiong said, because many women were afraid or ashamed of telling their stories and neither the government and nor quasi-government NGO All China Women’s Federation collected statistics. 
Jess Phillips, Mary Creagh, Theresa Villiers and Anne Jenkin share personal accounts in hope of encouraging other victims to talk
Actor Alyssa Milano’s online call after the Harvey Weinstein revelations became a conversation about men’s behaviour towards women and power imbalances
Attitudes to harassment may be changing, but there are still huge hurdles for women around the world wanting to take cases to court