
              Nothing is being left to chance as Xi Jinping prepares to secure a second five-year term
            
With the bazooka’s cold gunmetal nestling between her yellow felt jacket and coiffured black bob, Mrs Zhao sizes up the ranks of an imaginary enemy and squeezes off a few rounds, causing explosions of red and yellow pixels to flare on the LCD screen opposite.
“It’s pretty easy,” she grins, examining a photo taken on the cellphone of a friendly passer-by. “The soldiers are hard to hit but I destroyed a lot of tanks.”
The show is a a testament to the burgeoning cult of personality that has enveloped “Uncle Xi” over the last five years. Photographs show the 64-year-old sharing peanuts with ethnic minority villagers, caressing the trunk of a baby elephant, and hobnobbing with world leaders. China’s state of the art satellites, tractors, drones and high-speed rail are exalted along the blue-carpeted hallways. The displays build a picture of a dazzling utopia, intoxicating enough to even distract visitors from the polluted reality outside.
“This exhibition is so inspiring, so warm,” says a Mrs Wang, 57, a retired party official who visited on a tour arranged by her neighborhood committee. “It also reminds me the hardships we have overcome. Chinese people’s lives are getting better and better, thanks to Chairman Xi.”
“I don’t think Xi Jinping has ambitions to go beyond Mao,” says Prof. Steve Tsang, Director of the SOAS China Institute at the University of London. “But I don’t think his ambitions are any less than being treated like Mao.”
Officials, businessmen and academics meanwhile shrug off interview requests for fear of being associated with critical coverage of Xi. The use of VPNs — computer networks that allow determined netizens in China to access content beyond the Great Firewall — have ground to a halt.
“The exhibition is terrific, very uplifting,” says a Mr Ma, 37. “I am impressed by the high speed rail, nuclear plants, space technology, and other infrastructure projects. Without a strong government, we couldn’t have achieved these.”