If you are new, please read our posting guidelines and search the subreddit for commonly answered questions.      
Please post in English where possible. Chinese submissions should be accompanied by English translations and submitted with English titles as 99% of reddit users cannot read Chinese.
When linking to news articles, please use the original title, or a straightforward and accurate one of your own. Editorialized, provocative, inaccurate, sensationalist, and/or misleading titles may result in the removal of the post. If you add an opinion byline, please ensure that it is immediately clear which part is opinion.
Banks often serve large companies; they don’t have the ability to serve small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) well
What Manchu resources. Books, audiovisual foremost, but also curious about presential classes or tutors, if only for reference
I'm a young, American male working as a data analyst for a large bank. I had always heard that China had plenty of opportunity to invest and get rich. Because of this, I lived in China for 2 years during college where I witnessed the new money rich first hand. I continued on to minor in Chinese because of this. I now want to put my knowledge of the language/country to use.
I'm a male, extremely lucky in physical appearance and build, and have $10k I've saved over the last year that I'm willing to invest in anyway possible, as long as I might see a large return on it. I wouldn't mind moving to China to invest directly or doing so from abroad.
Your best bet would be to do the legwork and find a business you are interested in investing in with a person you trust. Get a local lawyer to write up the contract and hope for the best. Best case scenario, the business grows slow enough that it doesn't attract the attention of any political players in the area and get taken over (at which point the judge to whom you would take your paperwork to address your grievances would likely own a significant fraction of the business). Huge companies like apple get shat on by the CPC and you think you will just be able to throw a little bit of money around and not get stomped? You would even struggle getting the legal right to enter the country to attend any court proceedings you might be able to stir up if you were to get double crossed.
A better use of your experience in China would be to invest in a business in your home country that sources goods/resources from China. So many people with great ideas in the west just think "I'll get it made in China" without an understanding of the realities of doing business in the Guo. For my money, 10k USD would buy enough computer hardware that you could probably double your money in Australia if you assembled them there, but not enough that you would have to pay import tax if you felt like being a little scummy.
China is not a cheap place to start anything. You can’t even try staring a biz without at least 100k. That’s not even money these days in China.  Rent for retail or warehouse space are even more expensive than back in the states. 
Do they allow for an open relationship type thing? Any idea where I would look? Very open to the idea
In my previous tier 2 city, there was a club where these older women would go to look for "boys". You will probably have to do more research. This arrangement exists though. You will have to go to places that aren't named Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou though. Preferably Zhengzhou
Definitely Zhengzhou, there’s like one KFC where most of the action is based.  Just tell them you are a young duck looking for the mature chicken.  
He should ask the lady in the large puffer jacket sat behind the couple letting their kid shit in an empty bucket. 
Hey, lest not forget the wumao's aunt who came back with an Audi and multiple furs due to her investor scheme
Oh shit she has amazing stock tips too.   Not stuff on the Shanghai exchange, like special investment funds that you buy online!  
Just buy some ETFs. If you really want to invest in China specifically, pick a fund focused on Chinese holdings like for example VWO. 
P.S. Good get rich schemes aren't the kind of thing somebody's going to want to share with a stranger on the internet. 
You sound like a complete douchebag, what the fuck does your physical appearance and build have to do with your question?
Yes, all the wealthy people in China are insanely attractive.  Oh, no they're not, they're fatass old dudes.  The only way you could leverage that would be to be a whore.  Go be a whore.
Rendered by PID 42216 on  app-279  at 2017-10-27 08:56:42.520152+00:00 running 2c9616a country code: SG.