In the coming 20-30 years, China is expected to be the leading determinant in global natural gas demand, outpacing the U.S. as the biggest natural gas consumer.
China: Where natural gas market could boom next In the coming 20-30 years, China is expected to be the leading determinant in global natural gas demand, outpacing the U.S. as the biggest natural gas consumer.  Check out this story on USATODAY.com: https://usat.ly/2gD6EyO
For much of the past two decades, China has been the main driver of global oil demand growth. In the coming two to three decades, China is expected to become the leading determinant in global natural gas demand as well, outpacing the U.S. as the biggest natural gas consumer at some point between 2040 and 2050.
Economic and industrial production growth, coupled with efforts to reduce stifling pollution levels, will lead China’s surging natural gas demand over the next couple of decades, according to analysts and international projections.
China’s gas consumption is expected to rise to 300 billion cubic meters (BCM) in 2020 from 206 BCM in 2016, and surge to 600 BCM by 2040. After that, China is seen outstripping the U.S. in natural gas consumption to become the biggest user of the fuel in the world, according to Bernstein.   
The biggest risk to the expected natural gas demand surge is renewables rising more than currently projected and therefore narrowing the timeframe in which gas will serve as the ‘bridge fuel’ between coal and clean energy.
“While it is unclear if this fuel mix goal will be reached, even minor gains in share translate into big numbers. Presenters showed forecasts for China’s gas demand increasing to 450–600 BCM by 2030,” Shanks noted.
According to industry observers, China needs further gas market reforms in order to reach the full gas potential and make gas for industrial use cheaper — and thus more competitive — than coal and oil. In addition, the more flexible and lower-priced LNG market is bound to benefit Chinese gas importers, WoodMac says.
BP sees Chinese demand for oil surging 61%, and gas demand soaring 186% by 2035. The UK supermajor also expects China to become the world’s second-biggest shale gas producer after the U.S. in two decades’ time.
Almost everyone expects China to become for the natural gas market what it is for the oil market now — the leading consumer with the largest demand growth. Whether these projections will materialize will depend on Chinese economic growth, urbanization, energy policies, global gas supply, and last but not least — the pace of renewable energy and storage solution technology and adoption.