
Note you can select to send to either the @free.kindle.com or @kindle.com variations.
‘@free.kindle.com’ emails are free but can only be sent to your device when it is connected to wi-fi.
‘@kindle.com’ emails can be delivered even when you are not connected to wi-fi, but note that service fees apply.

In 2010, according to the sixth Chinese census, the sex ratio at birth (SRB) was 118 males for every 100 females. The global SRB average is about 105. Thus, the gap between 118 and 105 is made up of “missing girls.” Scholars present three main explanations for the skewed SRB statistic: sex-selective abortion, infanticide and delayed or late registration. Most studies take a demographic and cultural approach to explain the high SRB. However, we believe the story of the “missing girls” is also an administrative one and adopt the street-level bureaucrat theory of policy implementation to explain the pervasiveness of late registration in rural China. We use descriptive statistics derived from the 1990, 2000 and 2010 census data to identify the “missing girls.” We believe the combination of late registration and unreported births may point to a larger proportion of “missing girls” than previously reported from the SRB statistic.
In the summer of 1996, whilst visiting villages in northern Shaanxi province, a farmer invited us to stay with him and his family, which included his wife, his son and two daughters. We knew that since the mid-1980s, villagers were legally permitted to have a second child if the first was a girl, but we were surprised to see three children all under the age of ten. The farmer introduced his eldest daughter and youngest son by their names, but he presented the middle daughter as the “non-existent one” with a smile and a wink. He told us that his first daughter was registered but that when his second child, a daughter, was born they did not register her and instead waited to have another child. The third child was a boy; they registered him as the “second” child. This family contradicted our understanding of the “missing girls” and the high sex ratio at birth (SRB) statistic reported in the 1990 census. Soon after our visit with the farmer, we observed unregistered girls in other villages. After 2000, we continued to observe these missing girls in the countryside and also read about cases of unregistered girls in the Chinese and English language press. However, it was unclear whether or not we were observing unusual cases or a more widespread phenomenon of underreported births across rural China.
While previous studies have contributed much to the literature, many of these studies take a top-down approach to examining central policy outcomes. However, between the national family planning policy and individual parental decisions come local politics and uneven policy implementation. Indeed, we believe the story of the “missing girls” is a political one as well as a demographic and cultural one. We adopt the street-level bureaucrat theory of policy implementation, as well as a top-down and bottom-up approach, to explain how “out-of-plan” births and the late registration of females and males have been pervasive in rural China throughout the 1980s, 1990s and since 2000.
This paper proceeds as follows. The first section presents the three competing explanations for the missing girls, starting with sex-selective abortion, infanticide and then delayed birth registration. The second section provides the political explanation for the uneven implementation of the family planning policy as well as regulations on birth registration. Local leaders (street-level bureaucrats) have strong incentives and opportunities to underreport births within their jurisdiction. The third section is a comparison of birth cohorts. We use descriptive statistics to evaluate the national census data and compare the actual increase in post-1980 birth cohorts with pre-1980 birth cohorts. We find that both males and females appear in older, post-1980 cohorts, with a larger proportion of females appearing in older (10- to 20-year-old) cohorts. In the closing discussion, we suggest that the uneven policy implementation, birth registration system and incentives for villagers to keep their daughters may explain a large proportion of the missing girls.
If late registration is occurring, then we will observe an increase of males and females in the population
If an administrative bias towards sons exists, then we expect a larger proportion of registered females in older cohorts
However, when examining age cohorts and backward projections for the 1990, 2000 and 2010 censuses, we find that the sex ratio decreases after the age of 15 and tends to become more normal after the age of 20. In the 1990 census, the SRB in the early 1970s was 105 for 18-year-olds (born in 1972) and 103 for 20-year-olds (born in 1970). In the 2010 census, the SRB in the early 1990s was 107 for 18-year-olds (born in 1992) and 103 for 20-year-olds (born in 1990). That is, sex ratios for 18- and 20-year-olds born in the early 1990s were similar to those born in the early 1970s without the single-child policy or incentives for late registration. For the 2010 census, this suggests a significant number of females appear in the population after the age of ten.
Yet, street-level bureaucrats at the town and county level also have strong incentives to interfere with local population reporting and intentionally underreport policy infractions. In the 1990s, the single-child policy had become a policy priority and promotion depended on keeping the number of births within established targets. However, villager resistance to limiting births was fierce and villagers came up with inventive ways to circumvent the policy. At the same time, many township and county leading cadres would massage the local birth statistics to make sure that they remained within their assigned birth quotas set by higher authorities. Thus, the missing girls may be the consequence of a massive uncoordinated effort between villagers who have the incentives to delay registrations and local officials who wish to hide policy infringements.
We are grateful to Liu Renjing, Han Yuxian, Ru Tong, Wang Xiaohong, Gao Qiufeng, Liu Hongyan, Lu Meichen, Jia Fang and Shi Meini for their research assistance in China. We would like to thank Melanie Manion, Bruce Dickson, Zhong Yong, Lu Xiaobo, Martin Whyte and the reviewers for their very insightful suggestions regarding earlier drafts of the article. This research was supported by the “111 Project,” grant number B16031.
Shi Yaojiang is professor and director of the Centre for Experimental Economics in Education, Shaanxi Normal University, China.
John James Kennedy is associate professor, department of political science, University of Kansas, Lawrence, USA.
The determinants of discrimination against daughters in China: evidence from a provincial-level analysis
Prenatal sex selection and missing girls in China: evidence from the diffusion of diagnostic ultrasound
Gender bias and marriage squeeze in China, South Korea and India 1920–1990: effects of war, famine and fertility decline
Decentralized Authoritarianism in China: The Communist Party's Control of Local Elites in the Post-Mao Era
“Zhongguo de nühai shengcun: lishi, xianzhuang he zhanwang” (Survival of China's girls: past, present and future prospects)
The cadre management system, post-Mao: the appointment, promotion, transfer and removal of Party and state leaders
Underreporting of births and infant deaths in rural China: evidence from field research in one county of northern China
Are births under-reported in rural China? Manipulation of statistical records in response to China's population policies
“Zhongguo yi hun funü rengong liuchan zhong di xingbie xuanze” (Sex-selection abortions among married Chinese women)
“Zhongguo chusheng dengji de xianzhuang, yingxiang yinsu ji cujin zhengce de tansuo xing yanjiu keti baogao” (An exploratory investigation of birth registration in China: situations, determinants and promoting polices, summary report)
China's fertility transition through regional space: using GIS and census data for a spatial analysis of historical demography
“Jihua shengyu tongji man bao xianxiang qian xi” (Family planning statistics and the concealment phenomenon)
China's new rural daughters coming of age: downsizing the family and firing up cash-earning power in the new economy
‘A married out daughter is like spilt water’? Women's increasing contacts and enhanced ties with their natal families in post-reform rural north China
China's excess males, sex selective abortion, and one child policy: analysis of data from 2005 national intercensus survey