In a new online game that has come out during the 19th National Congress in Beijing, Chinese netizens can compete in applauding for Xi Jinping. The game has become an online hit.
The speech, that focused on China’s future and its rise in the world today, was repeatedly paused for the appropriate applause from the party members in the audience.
With the introduction of a new game by Tencent, people can now also clap along to Xi Jinping’s speech from their own living room. The game became an online hit on October 18. It was already played over 400 million times by 9 pm Beijing time.
The app then allows you “clap” for Xi by tapping the screen of your phone as many times as you can within a time frame of 18 seconds. After completing, you can invite your friends to play along and compete with them.
The game has become especially popular on WeChat, where some users boast that they have scored a ‘clap rate’ of 1695.
Update Friday, October 20: the game link now redirects to the Tencent News site themed around the 19th Party Congress through desktop. On mobile, the game still works, and has been played over 1,2 billion times.
Diandian Guo is a China-born Master student of transdisciplinary and global society, politics & culture at the University of Groningen with a special interest for new media in China. She has a BA in International Relations from Beijing Foreign Language University, and is specialized in China's cultural memory.
Una app creada para aplaudir al presidente de China alcanza los 400 millones de partidas en una noche - Pesca y Bits
Una app creada para aplaudir al presidente de China alcanza los 400 millones de partidas en una noche | Trucos para Moviles Android
With Tencent being a huge player in both the online gaming and online payment market, making in-app purchases has never been easier. Oblivious to the dangers of children playing online, some Chinese parents have now lost thousands of renminbi to virtual weapons and armor.
The third grader from Guiyang, Guizhou, secretly spent over 20,000 RMB (±3000$) of his father’s money on mobile games, buying weapons and armor for his virtual warriors. The boy could effortlessly click from the mobile game to QQ Wallet, one of the Paypal-like online payment platforms by Chinese tech giant Tencent.
The unexpected financial setback is a big blow to the family. The father makes less than 100 RMB (14.8$) per day. To earn back the money his son spent on online games will cost him seven months of work. The 20,000 RMB was the family’s savings, much needed for their everyday life and their son’s school books.
The young boy started spending the money when he played a popular online mobile fighting game. He wanted to purchase additional in-game features to keep up with his friends, who also play the same game.
Since the boy knew his father’s QQ Wallet code, he was able to purchase dozens of items through the app without his father knowing.
“This is booming business for Tencent, as it can easily rope in its users across multiple platforms; making the step from WeChat friend groups to mobile games to online payment as small as possible.”
The game is currently among the top downloaded games in the Tencent app store. Its most expensive in-app purchase is almost 616 RMB (±91$); an amount that was spent many times by the 9-year-old boy from Guiyang.
The news report about the 9-year-old boy spending 20,000 RMB on a game shows many transactions of 615; likely concerning Tencent’s Crossfire game.
The combination is a golden one for Tencent, as it can easily rope in its users across multiple platforms; making the step from WeChat friend groups to mobile games with in-app purchases to online payment as small as possible.
This is not necessarily a problem when it concerns adult players, but when it concerns kids as young as 9, the game is a trickier one.
“My little brother is crazy about mobile games, and I told him that I will beat him up if he uses our parent’s money to play. Our relative’s son used up 20,000 RMB on mobile games.”
Another commenter wrote: “My little brother is crazy about mobile games, and I told him that I will beat him up if he uses our parent’s money to play. We’ve never had a problem. Our relative’s son used up 20,000 RMB on mobile games.”
By now, the fathers from Guiyang and Xiangyang have both contacted Tencent to see if they can get some of their money back. In both cases, it is yet unclear if they will succeed in being reimbursed for their children’s games.
The highly anticipated release of Pokemon Go in Taiwan on August 6th has led to a true Pokemon Go craze. It has brought about a thriving Pokemon Go business – introducing anything from Pokemon Go university courses to Pokemon Go bus tours.
“Pokémon Go resulted in more than 800 traffic fines just three days after the game became available in Taiwan.”
At the Taipei Zoo, special signs inform visitors about the right way to play Pokémon Go whilst visiting the park, humorously reminding them to mind their step and the animals when playing.
“Pokémon bus tours: an experienced Pokémon trainer will be on the bus to share his tips and tricks on playing the game.”
“Cruises take players around the lake, allowing them to capture those water-loving Pokémon that cannot be found on land.”