Join today and you can easily save your favourite articles, join in the conversation and comment, plus select which news your want direct to your inbox.
Join today and you can easily save your favourite articles, join in the conversation and comment, plus select which news your want direct to your inbox.
China's central bank has warned in the clearest language to date that extreme credit creation and trouble in the shadow banking system could lead to a full-blown financial crisis.
Zhou Xiaochuan, the governor of the People's Bank (PBOC), spoke of "fierce market reactions" and possibly a Minsky Moment, the tipping point when credit cycles break and euphoric booms collapse under their own weight.
China's President Xi Jinping promises to deepen economic and financial reforms and further open its markets to foreign investors.
The Bloodhound Supersonic Car makes its first public appearance, with plans to break the land speed record.
A 10-year-old boy accused of stealing his mother's car during school hours took State Highway Patrol on a high-speed chase along an Ohio freeway.
Don't want Amazon boxes sitting on the porch? The company hopes you'll let a stranger inside to drop them off, in a new service it’s launching called Amazon Key.
With has processing speeds exceeding 100 petaflops per second, the Chinese military hope this machine is the key to their future military supremacy.
With President Donald Trump ordering the release of 2,800 documents relating to the killing of John F. Kennedy, we look back at how the events of 1963 unfolded. 
Professor Larry Sabato of the University of Virginia said it was 'ridiculous' that so much time has passed since the assassination of US President John F Kennedy without the public release of documents.
China's President Xi Jinping promises to deepen economic and financial reforms and further open its markets to foreign investors.
It had long been assumed that this particular form of crisis cannot happen in a state-run financial system where the banks are under Communist Party control.
He warned that corporate debt had reached disturbingly high levels and that local governments were using tricks to evade credit curbs.
"If there is too much pro-cyclical stimulus in an economy, fluctuations will be hugely amplified. Too much exuberance when things are going well causes tensions to build up. That could lead to a sharp correction, and eventually lead to a so-called Minsky Moment. That's what we must really guard against," he said.
China's lending boom since the downturn in early 2015 is comparable to the massive stimulus after the Lehman crisis.
Non-financial debt has galloped up to 300 per cent of gross domestic product - uncharted territory for a big developing economy.
The International Monetary Fund says debts in the shadow banking system grew by 27 per cent last year.
Less widely known is that the "augmented" budget deficit - including local government spending and the deficits of quasi-state entities - has jumped to 13 per cent of GDP. This is an astonishing level of fiscal stimulus at this stage of the economic cycle. It was around 6 per cent in 2010.
The extra spending has turbo-charged the economy and lifted growth to 6.7 per cent, a figure endorsed this time even by private economists.
The boom has allowed President Xi Jinping to bask in glory at the 19th Congress of the Communist Party this week and establish an iron grip over the Standing Committee, but at the cost of greater trouble ahead.
Too much exuberance when things are going well causes tensions to build up. That could lead to a sharp correction, and eventually lead to a so-called Minsky Moment.
George Magnus, from Oxford University's China Centre, says state control over the banking system means that bad debts can be swept under the carpet for a long time but that does not in itself avert a potential crunch.
The IMF warned in its Global Financial Stability Report that the smaller and medium-size banks rely on short-term funding to cover 34 per cent of their total lending, and most of this is on maturities of three months or less.
This exposes them to a "funding shock" if conditions suddenly tighten, forcing them to sell assets into an illiquid market at fire-sale prices.
This is what happened to Northern Rock, Lehman Brothers, and AIG in the global financial crisis when the wholesale capital markets seized up.
China's hardline banking regulator, Guo Shuqing, began cracking down on shadow credit in February, greatly reducing the pace of loan growth. This has already cooled the housing market but the full impact on the economy will not be felt until next year.
The problem with the assault on shadow banking is that private companies rely on this form of credit, while the state-owned behemoths or "SOEs" gobble up most of the available loans from the "big five" state banks.
"There is little evidence yet of financial distress but what we are hearing is that a lot of small and medium-sized firms are starved of credit, or have to pay extremely high rates," Magnus said.
The risk for China is that inflation in the US will snap back and prompt the Federal Reserve to raise rates abruptly. That would lift borrowing costs across the world and "stress test" debtors in China. It would also drive up the dollar.
The PBOC would then find itself trapped by the "Impossible Trinity", forced to pick its poison: either follow the Fed with rate rises, or risk a run on the yuan.
For now, President Xi projects calm. The plan to double the size of the economy from 2010 to 2020 will be achieved, attaining the Confucian goal of "a moderately prosperous society".