a vote to suspend universal credit is brushed aside by Theresa May’s government as though parliament counts for nothing
None of these events is in any way an advertisement for the dignity, resilience and pragmatism on which liberal democracies like to imagine they rest. Overshadowing even all of these glum events, however, is the jarring contrast between the world’s two most powerful political leaders.
The contrast could hardly have been more stark if had been deliberately staged by the Chinese Communist party for its own advantage. While Trump exposed himself as narcissistic and degenerate, a word one rightly hesitates to use but now seems unavoidable, Xi offered an imposing but extremely authoritarian vision of the world.
These differing messages pose a lethal choice which most of us struggle to avoid if we can. If we are sensible, they are not the only two options. Yet they cannot be dismissed. While the democratically elected president’s authority plummets around the world, that of the appointed socialist authoritarian steadily rises. The reputations of the countries and systems embodied in the two men rise and fall with them.
The competition between the liberal democracies and the socialist authoritarians is not yet a new cold war. But the rivalry will redefine the next 30 years, whether any of us likes it or not. All nations and traditions will be compelled to respond and adapt. European governments will be forced to make some complex and unpleasant choices, not least because both the economic superpowers view western Europe as a fulcrum of global influence.
Xi’s speech to the Communist party congress in Beijing tested the eyelids and bladders of many who listened to it. Its title, Thoughts on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era, won’t sell as many papers or yield as much online traffic as the latest celebrity revelations, or create as much social media comment as Trump’s latest outburst. But Xi’s speech matters far more than they do.
Yet every one of its messages has big practical implications for Europe. Some of these implications may potentially be positive. Others are definitely not. Europe, its nations and its political leaders, are going to have to search carefully through the options and be very realistic about where they lead. If even a quarter of the media attention that is lavished on Trump’s America could be trained on Xi’s China, our part of the world would be the better for it.
For many of us, skipping the big read on China has become a dangerous habit. We know we ought to try harder because China so obviously matters. Give us China, Lord, we say to ourselves, but not tonight. After Xi’s speech in Beijing this week, that is no longer a serious option.