If you are new, please read our posting guidelines and search the subreddit for commonly answered questions.      
Please post in English where possible. Chinese submissions should be accompanied by English translations and submitted with English titles as 99% of reddit users cannot read Chinese.
When linking to news articles, please use the original title, or a straightforward and accurate one of your own. Editorialized, provocative, inaccurate, sensationalist, and/or misleading titles may result in the removal of the post. If you add an opinion byline, please ensure that it is immediately clear which part is opinion.
Banks often serve large companies; they don’t have the ability to serve small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) well
What Manchu resources. Books, audiovisual foremost, but also curious about presential classes or tutors, if only for reference
This is a general discussion thread for any questions or topics that you feel don't deserve their own thread, or just for random thoughts and comments.
The sidebar guidelines apply here too and these threads will be closely moderated, so please keep the discussions civil, and try to keep top-level comments China-related.
http://np.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/76ityh/what_scientific_fact_freaks_you_right_the_fuck_out/doenc2n/
Next time counter with the fact that the Chinese government estimates only 7% of the population can speak proper Mandarin and 30% can't speak it at all
The Mandarin bit is at 50% actually.
If by proper the government means this shitty Beijing Mandarin with this horrendous eeeeeeerrrrrrrrrrrrrr, they should think again.
And yes, by the way, i DO have a chinese tattoo. And no, you cannot see it. It’s for the ccp’ eyes only- and even then they have to demonstrate that they’re within 5 HSK points of my own (preferably lower) beforehand. Nothin personnel kid 😎
And yes, by the way, i DO have a chinese tattoo. And no, you cannot see it. It’s for the ccp’ eyes only- and even then they have to demonstrate that they’re within 5 HSK points of my own (preferably lower) beforehand. Nothin personnel kid 😎
CCTV anchor level is a pretty high standard to be fair.  Most people in the UK wouldn't be able to speak like a BBC news anchor either, what with all the regional accents.  Even in the US, there are plenty of places with strong regional accents/lots of slang used.
Not quite sure you're right, there. They get intense and extremely critical training that takes considerable time before they can become a news anchor. They don't just pop down "Can you talk like a machine?" on the application form. 官話 (CCTVese) isn't a natural form of Mandarin, it's affected. It takes months of elocution lessons to affect that speaking style, which I believe most people could do.
My ex went for news anchor training with a local news broadcaster in Kunming and had to endure rigorous daily exercises, rote pronunciation of words, etc.
The reason no one has answered you is because you provided no information about where your family is located.  China’s development has been highly uneven.  If your family is deep in the countryside in one of the poorer provinces you might find it barely changed from 2007.  If your family is in a smaller city in one of the Eastern provinces you might find it changed beyond recognition, filled with high rises and cars.  If you are from a major city you will find that there are even more tall buildings than before.  Also you will notice the cars.  Tons and tons of cars.  Traffic will be god awful.  Lots of luxury German sedans.  
You will likely find that the service industry suffers from a lack of quality workers.  Anyone with an ounce of ambition either went to college or opened a business.  So the restaurant, retail and hospitality sector is left with the absolute dregs of the workforce.
Socially, not much has changed.  However, there are a lot more overweight people than in 2007.  Especially women.
The Chinese market of mobile-payments has grown to be 90x that of the US's. The mobile-payment industry there has grown 600% vs the US's 12.5% in the past 5 years. Chinese companies have started investing in tech-startups all around Asia to help influence even more growth in mobile transactions while the US has remained mostly unchanged. 
In my experience it's mostly college students using mobile-payments in the US, while virtually everyone is using them in China. 
I think it's caught on in China because credit/debit cards never really took off, so it was a far bigger development here than in the West. Mobile payments are less revolutionary when you already don't use cash that much.
We should closely observe China's mobile payments systems, then steal their technologies and block their companies from doing business in waiguo, because waiguo is under developed in mobile payments. Waiguo has 5,000 years of non mobile payment culture. 
Sure, it's gross to generalize about a country of 1.3 billion people, but that's never stopped me before.  
It seems to me that there are two issues, that lead to the same problem, which can be summed up as:  The clever people aren't educated, and the educated people aren't clever.
Peasant farmers have to be very clever just in order to survive.  They need to figure out how / when to plant, to fix broken machinery, to repair their houses, to mend their clothes, to find anywhere to cut corners and save a bit of moeny, to scam others if needed, etc.  
These are the people who moved en masse to the cities to work the factories, become tailors, wait tables, etc.  And they're able to pick up and learn new trades and jobs very quickly! But they are limited to low level jobs, where they can only do what they are told.  You don't get to make decisions unless you are The Boss.
As for the educated, the cleverness has been beaten out of them.  Education is rote, and the correct answer is whatever the teacher says that it is.  This top-down mentality continues even through college, and when they get into the workforce.  You'll get much further in life if you just do what you are told.
Again, you don't get to make decisions until you are The Boss.  Even if you can become the boss someday.  As so, again, they're reactive, not proactive, and aren't trained to look at the bigger picture.
In either case, what use is being innovative in a society that puts so much value on following orders?  Only The Boss is allowed to innovate.
The often regurgitated stereotype of Chinese "inability to innovate" is entirely untrue and really tiresome.
The problem, we think, is not the innovative or intellectual capacity of the Chinese people, which is boundless, but the political world in which their schools, universities, and businesses need to operate, which is very much bounded.
Edit:  And if you don't like that one, Google has About 1,100,000 more results that you can pick from.  Great Hits like:
'Why Do Chinese Lack Creativity?' – Foreign Policy
foreignpolicy.com/2015/06/23/china-innovation-creativity-research-patents/
For your information, by a simple Google search it's also fairly easy to enumerate dozens of western media articles praising China innovation in recent years. That really depends on what you really want to believe.
Nobody is arguing China is already a top innovator. But it's fairly easy to debunk the dumb theory "Chinese can't innovate" by looking at a few statistics and examples (like Nobel prize).
It's curious that there's very few attention towards other developing countries' apparent lack of "innovation", but only China. My theory is China's rapid rise triggers many people's superior/inferior complex.
Of course Chinese are as able to innovate as much as any other human being, I think the point is that they have the ability pretty much removed by the education system and  cultural issues. Can you provide some examples of Chinese innovation in the modern era? 
Like the number of yearly published research papers? Like the Nobel prize for an invention in the darkest time during Cultural revolution?
Point to any developing country, a westerner can make the same conclusion that their {system | culture | race} is {non-creative | unable to innovate | inferior}... while forgeting many western countries underwent the same phase...
Yeah but China boasts about innovation- recently shared bikes, high speed rail, online shopping and electronic payments.  I’m sure I don’t need to tell you none of which were invented in China.  So once more, would you care to provide some examples?
Yeah, you might want to re-read the examples I give, or re-examine what's your peculiar definition about "innovation".
Yeah, if the example of Nobel prize winning medical invention which saved millions of lives does not fit you definition of "innovation"... I suggest you re-examine your own education, really hard...
what is this nobel prize winning medical invention?  i can't seem to find any information on something like that
Can I take this you mean you agree there's a paucity of innovation in China but wish to remind us it's 'just a phase' unrelated to any aspects of Chinese education and culture? Which other 'developing countries' play host to 20% of the world's university students with university attendance rates of almost 50%? Your discussion of Chinese-won Nobel prizes below suggests you consider this a reasonable metric for innovation. How does China's Nobel prize per capita rate compare to countries with other educational and cultural systems?
Am I trying to prove China is already a top innovating country? You need to reexamine OP's dumb theory in the first place.
Also did you know Samuel Slater, vernerated as the father of American Industrialization, built his business by wholesale technology theft? How much time the US was in copycat mode before becoming a technology superpower? So yes, it's a phase.
It's curious. People actually in the industry fully reconize China's trends, while unskilled English teachers here love to regurgitate this cultural "inability of innovation" dumb theory.
So just to clarify, you do believe China does suffer from a lack of innovation, but see this as 100% a consequence of China's economic circumstances. Also, either culture/education are (a) irrelevant to innovation or (b) China's culture/education successfully promote innovation just not to such a degree as to completely offset the country's economic situation.
China innovation suffers from economic backwardness, not the reverse. Simple fact: Just a little more than 30 years ago, most people were forced to toil away in backbreaking sustenance agriculture. Many still do today.
Chinese education, though brutally competitive and not without problems, is actually one of the top factors to enable China's rapid rise. Evidenced by outperforming Chinese students overseas, PISA tests, exploding number of published papers and patents, contributions to open source software, etc. 
Contrary to many English teachers want to believe, discipline and high demand do not mean rote memory nor oppression to innovation; Jockey-worshipping culture and liberal arts diploma from community colleges do not mean creativity.
Rendered by PID 104424 on  app-247  at 2017-10-27 09:07:09.757540+00:00 running 2c9616a country code: SG.