Connecting decision makers to a dynamic network of information, people and ideas, Bloomberg quickly and accurately delivers business and financial information, news and insight around the world.
Connecting decision makers to a dynamic network of information, people and ideas, Bloomberg quickly and accurately delivers business and financial information, news and insight around the world.
China’s process for choosing top leaders is opaque, but not unpredictable. There are patterns  to who rises and falls at the Communist Party’s twice-a-decade reshuffles, like the one completed Wednesday in Beijing.
Personnel moves at the 19th Party Congress confirmed trends identified in a Bloomberg News analysis of Chinese political promotions over the past quarter century. The careers of seven dozen top officials show that people who run big cities such as Beijing or Shanghai are practically guaranteed spots in the upper echelons, while some rich industrial provinces like Guangdong have had less political clout relative to their economic strength.
The congress selected 204 people to run China for the next five years, from army generals to executives of the nation’s biggest state-run conglomerates. The week of pageantry culminated Wednesday when President Xi Jinping and the handful of other new leaders on the all-powerful Politburo Standing Committee walked onto a red-carpeted stage to present themselves to the world:
The Standing Committee meets weekly to approve all major decisions. The larger Politburo gathers every month. Bigger still is the Central Committee, which assembles at least once a year to ratify broad policy shifts.
To make it onto one of those powerful bodies, the Communist Party’s 89 million members must check certain boxes. Often that includes holding positions at government ministries, military units and local government. But regional leadership posts have proven the best springboard for higher office.
From there, Xi jumped straight to the Standing Committee. Similarly, Shanghai’s current party chief, Han Zheng, also secured a spot on the panel Wednesday.
A review of the broader group of 70 Politburo members since 1992 shows that some of mainland China’s 31 regions provide better hope for advancement than others. The governors, mayors and party chiefs of politically sensitive areas have received promotions more often than their peers in wealthier, more economically important provinces.
The charts below compare the relative political influence of a region—the number of Politburo members it has produced—with its economic influence, its share of the nation’s gross domestic product. Regions get credit for every top job held there by future Politburo member. So Fujian, Zhejiang and Shanghai, which were all led by Xi at some point, all get credit for producing a future Politburo member.
poor minority areas lag their peers, regions with a history of separatism such as Xinjiang, Tibet and Qinghai stand out. 
China’s industrial powerhouses, such as Guangdong and Shandong, produce fewer top leaders than economic influence might suggest. 
While China’s mostly poor minority areas lag their peers, regions with a history of separatism such as Xinjiang, Tibet and Qinghai stand out. 
Shanghai, which was also once run by former President Jiang Zemin, has been the most consistent producer of future state leaders. Fujian—home to military installations targeting Taiwan—has also outperformed its coastal peers. Meanwhile, the remote western regions of Tibet and Xinjiang have emerged as proving grounds for dealing with the challenges of separatism and religious extremism.
The trends held this year, too. Officials with leadership experience in Beijing, Chongqing, Tianjin, Tibet and Xinjiang all joined the Politburo.
Many Politburo seats are allocated to powerful groups within the Communist Party, creating an equilibrium that has changed little in recent years.
China’s leadership is more homogeneous than either the party or the nation as a whole. No woman or member of the country’s recognized 55 minority groups has ever been promoted to the Standing Committee. The latest line-up reduced the number of women on the Politburo to one from two.
Only 5 percent of the Central Committee’s members are women, compared with 20 percent of the party or 49 percent of the country’s population. A similar share hail from ethnic minorities, who make up about 8 percent of the citizenry.
Li toiled for decades in poorer regions but did run a county adjacent to another being run by Xi in Hebei province. Then when Xi rose to power, he was promoted to the 
While Han has overseen Shanghai’s transformation into one of Asia’s most modern cities, including a $44 billion infrastructure makeover, the Politburo member has also struggled to control property prices and establish a new free-trade zone. 
Wang gained notoriety promoting a relatively liberal economic program known as the “Guangdong model” and has since become a top liaison to the U.S., where he has pushed back against protectionist trade policies. 
Politburo member is Xi’s top political theorist and foreign-policy guru, having advised his two immediate predecessors. As an academic, he advocated the strengths of strong central leadership over fractious democratic systems.
Before overseeing appointments for every top-level job in the country, Zhao cut his teeth as the country’s youngest regional leader in the western province of Qinghai. The local economy doubled during his seven years in charge.
of “small-town economies”–or clusters of hi-tech and innovation-focused businesses–while governor of Zhejiang province. He now oversees Jiangsu, with an economy larger than Indonesia’s.
as part of an initiative to redevelop impoverished Guizhou province by focusing on “big data” industries.
The Politburo’s youngest member has embraced services and high-end manufacturing in Guangdong as he tries 
While Han has overseen Shanghai’s transformation into one of Asia’s most modern cities, including a $44 billion infrastructure makeover, the Politburo member has also struggled to control property prices and establish a new free-trade zone. 
Wang gained notoriety promoting a relatively liberal economic program known as the “Guangdong model” 
Before overseeing appointments for every top-level job in the country, Zhao cut his teeth as the country’s youngest regional leader in the western province of Qinghai. The local economy doubled during his seven years in charge.
The former Xi associate attracted investments from the likes of Apple Inc. as part of an initiative to redevelop impoverished Guizhou province by focusing on “big data” industries.
The Politburo’s youngest member has embraced services and high-end manufacturing in Guangdong as he tries to manage slowing growth and rising labor costs in the southern manufacturing hub.
one of Asia’s most modern cities, including a $44 billion infrastructure makeover, the Politburo member has also struggled to control property prices and establish a new free-trade zone.
Wang gained notoriety promoting a relatively liberal economic program known as the “Guangdong model” 
in the country, Zhao cut his teeth as the country’s youngest regional leader in the western province of Qinghai. The local economy doubled during his seven years in charge.
The former Xi aide developed his concept of “small-town economies”–or clusters of hi-tech and innovation-focused businesses–while governor of Zhejiang province. He now oversees Jiangsu, with an economy larger than Indonesia’s.
the likes of Apple Inc. as part of an initiative to redevelop impoverished Guizhou province by focusing on “big data” industries.
The climb to the top of China’s ruling party is long and fraught with peril. Even the most meticulous of officials can see their careers suddenly cut short by investigation or the rules of succession. The few who make it will play a central role in running the world’s largest country into the next decade.
Source: Communist Party of China, National Bureau of Statistics, People’s Daily, Xinhua News Agency, data compiled by Bloomberg