If you are new, please read our posting guidelines and search the subreddit for commonly answered questions.      
Please post in English where possible. Chinese submissions should be accompanied by English translations and submitted with English titles as 99% of reddit users cannot read Chinese.
When linking to news articles, please use the original title, or a straightforward and accurate one of your own. Editorialized, provocative, inaccurate, sensationalist, and/or misleading titles may result in the removal of the post. If you add an opinion byline, please ensure that it is immediately clear which part is opinion.
Banks often serve large companies; they don’t have the ability to serve small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) well
What Manchu resources. Books, audiovisual foremost, but also curious about presential classes or tutors, if only for reference
You're on the subway. You arrive at your stop, positioned by the doors. The doors open. There is someone in your way trying to get on. Do you...
Oh jesus fuck this shit. I think I tried to play nice the first couple months in China but now I just plow through the fields of idiot meat. I've noticed more and more people on the platform are patiently and correctly waiting off to the side of the doors while passengers get off. I feel like my brutal shoulder lessons are having some effect on the population.
I think this is a valuable lesson about technological dissemination. In future we really need to think about how we go about handing out tech and make sure we thoroughly teach the recipients how to use it. I mean look at all the shit we got into for giving them something as benign as antibiotics.
I've got used to the 'me me me' attitude of people in subway stations. At first I was totally aghast but I now adopt the following strategy: if i am physically able to get off the subway car without bumping into you, then I will do my best to not shove you. I still think you should clear the fucking way for people getting off first, but it's OK, I'll get over it.
If, however, you are part of a three person horizontal line who has blocked the entire exit to the subway car and then try to get on before I have got off, then I will do my utmost to disrupt you, by stretching my arms out to occupy as much space as humanly possible and freeze as you walk into me. I won't shove, I'll just form a barricade. Since the average ayi is about a foot shorter than me, they will never beat me at this game. They will just ricochet off my torso into the sea of ayis behind them. At this point, the worst offender (the one trying to rush on in the middle) is almost always going to be last to get onto the car and probably won't get a seat, as the others behind them just flood in through the sides. In my head, I'm thinking 'They've learnt a valuable lesson about respecting people in public', but in reality they're probably just thinking 'Hmm, clearly I need to shove harder in future if I'm to get a seat'. 
at least we can notice a generational difference - younger people tend to hold back politely. so perhaps in 50 years time all of china will be a little more polite.
No way. They still have a long way to go, but the ayi generation is absolute trash in general. If you can't see the difference, you're blind.
The rotten generation who suffered the Cultural Revolution at their golden ages are now in their 50s/60s. Making a lot more sense?
Same here.  I'm too principled to yield but too empathetic to shove.  Therefore I wait until they move out the way.  It seems logical to me but perhaps other people just wonder why I'm standing in the way.
I won't bulldoze kids, but most certainly their asshole parents who don't teach them basic manners like queuing.  Pretty much anyone else is fair game.  Old ladies are the most vicious, gotta be careful of the little old ladies elbows, they can put out some serious damage.
Actually I've never bumped into someone doing this, not that I can remember. With my hands out they have a mini 'I'm standing right in the way' self-realization and gtfo of the way.
I find a nice loud 劳驾 shocks and confuses people to the point they'll let me pass.  It's enough to make them lose face for having to be publicly asked to be a civilized member of society (or maybe gain face for standing in the foreigner's way?  I don't understand the face rules).
Face rule #1: Acting like a passive aggressive inadequate little man towards people you feel inferior to (but would never admit) give you +10 mianzi points, BONUS 20 extra points if the person you try to start a dick-waving contest with is a laowai, even if he doesn't care, keep pushing your luck, as would middle school bullies.
Frequently on HK MTR I'll be trying to board a train that's just about to depart but there's some middle aged dude in front of me with a stupidly big backpack. He gets on the train and stops dead at the door despite the fact there's plenty of room in the carriage, door closing alerts are going and sorry but this dude is getting shoved. He might look back at me and give a little huff but afaic it's his fault for being a dumb shit with no spatial awareness. 
I also knocked over some old lady's trolley on purpose when going through mainland immigration back to HK, she was clearly a parallel trader with all the shit she had on her trolley so I felt no remorse but it was beautifully subtle how I just nudged my suitcase against her trolley while she wasn't looking and then slowly seeing the tower of baby formula and Chinese medicine fall over in my peripheral vision. 
Also, master the art of the elbow guard, never again get caught going round tight corners and bumping into people.
do it in a very authoritative voice, sound important. wearing shirt and trousers makes you look better.
I used to have so much fun in harbin when I realised how far an authoritative voice will take you and it makes them line up 9 times out of 10
Man, I had my best ever subway moment(s) coming back from the UK two months back.  Four things are important here.
1) I had put on a ton of weight from gorging on obscene amounts of chocolates and cakes back home and was 200lbs/90kg at the time
2) I wouldn't call myself strong (because I'm not), but I do weights a good 5-6 times a week, so I'm at least a fair bit stronger than the average malnourished ayi/shushu.
3) I had a massive backpack on my back RAMMED full of stuff I was taking back to China.  Thing weighed a god damn ton and just getting it on my back was hard enough.
4) I also had a regular backpack on my chest RAMMED full of more stuff I was taking back.  It had two laptops, a few bottles of water and few more heavy things inside, so it was pretty heavy too.
When that subway door opened and that crowd was standing there trying to push me back onto the train, I was like the motherfucking Juggernaut from X-men smashing through that crowd.  Anybody unlucky enough to have decided to push onto the train where I was getting off just fucking bounced straight off me and went flying.  It was beautiful.
Bulldoze the dirty commie little shit out of your way.  Tell him MaoZedong would not approve, and if he ever tries that again you'll shove a fermeneted egg up his ass.
Snow plow, definitely, but I use my hands in front of me to move people out of my way. It helps that I'm 25 cm taller and probably 40-50 kg heavier than they are.
Bi-sh. I pick the most flagrant person(s) and slowly exit right in front of them, slowing their boarding longer than those standing off the sides.
I remember in Shanghai once seeing this Laowei with a backpack on making a sweet twist of his body to smash the bag into some pushing middle aged woman knocking her right back. The look on her face was priceless.
D) move back and forth sideways, preventing the person from entering, and then scold then, 先下后上,你听明白没？？
and just like some of the other comments, i have seen a huge improvement in this over recent months/year or so. 
I block them and wait until the doors close and then give them the finger while I take it to the next stop and double back. Not always, but when I do, seeing the look of confusion on their face makes it worth the time.  
I choose C other. Stand at the edge of the doorway, grab onto the sides so you can’t be shoved out of the way until the door closes. Hold your ground and stay on the train. If he wont follow the rules then nobody gets in or out. Leave him to question what the world has become as the train pulls away without him. Let the world burn, one missed train at a time
I think if I were behind you trying to get off my stop you'd get bulldozed. I don't negotiate with terrorists.
B, but the Jingers are getting a lot better about either standing to the sides and waiting or filing in through the sides so that, while not actually waiting for people to debark first, they're not in physical contact with them as they board. I suppose I could stand a little off-center and drop a shoulder but this is the compromise that they've made between being wenming and being laozi first. 
You can sometimes get a good angle and drive them right into the corner of the metro. Drive a little extra shoulder pressure into them as well while they are stuck.
On a similar note, the elevators in my apartment building now have a cartoon guide illustrating how to get on and off the elevator. How do they not know this? I feel like if you are over the age of 8 and don't know how to ride an elevator you should be beheaded.
Try not to get stampeded by the inevitable tidal wave of people behind that asshole. Might start throwing an elbow or shoulder. Silently curse their mothers, grandmothers, the entire ancestral line.
I bulldoze, elbows out, knocking aside any fool standing in my way. Although they usually are smart enough to get out of the way on their own when they notice the 6ft2 and 220lbs laowai standing on the other side of the door.
but China is nothing compared to India, there you had to use elbows and be aggressive to get out of subway in Delhi, in Beijing I remember only interchange 13/15 used to be that bad, anyway bike is faster, Beijing is flat as pancake, so it's Bangkok,I don't see want point in using public transport
I recently visited a few 沿海城市 and was shocked to receive no resistance in my attempt to 下车. I was getting up and getting ready to lower my shoulder into someone's 爷爷 and almost fell on my face because I was leaning so far forward. Way less spitting over there too
I do a mix of bulldoze and side step. It's kind of a slow bulldoze while seeing where the most convenient path to take will be
B. Specifically, make a big show of parting the Red Sea with your arms outstretched, knocking those fuckers out of the way.
Rendered by PID 48491 on  app-92  at 2017-10-27 09:04:59.718478+00:00 running 2c9616a country code: SG.