If you are new, please read our posting guidelines and search the subreddit for commonly answered questions.      
Please post in English where possible. Chinese submissions should be accompanied by English translations and submitted with English titles as 99% of reddit users cannot read Chinese.
When linking to news articles, please use the original title, or a straightforward and accurate one of your own. Editorialized, provocative, inaccurate, sensationalist, and/or misleading titles may result in the removal of the post. If you add an opinion byline, please ensure that it is immediately clear which part is opinion.
Banks often serve large companies; they don’t have the ability to serve small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) well
What Manchu resources. Books, audiovisual foremost, but also curious about presential classes or tutors, if only for reference
Ask /r/China. Has any of you foreigners in China complained about the Internet restriction to your local ISPs?
You may have heard the hearsay that Chinese law enforcement treat foreigners relatively better than they treat the locals. (I don't know if it's true though. Eg, if a Chinese lost his phone and called the police, he would likely be told it's not going to be found if it's stolen and be careful next time, that's it. If a foreigner lost his phone and called the police, the police would put much more effort of finding the phone back to its owner.)
Foreigners aren't necessarily aware of the situation of Chinese Internet, so there's a big change that they don't know about GFW, but they have to find a way to solve the problem, the most obvious way to me is to ask ISP, which leads to my question, what could happen if a foreigner complains about the restriction?
So, if you have ever complained, what's the result? Did they give you any sort of solution? For example, is there any ISP that serves foreigners only, or, can a foreigner apply for full Internet access?
I assume, if someone asked, the standard response from ISP would be something like "because of law." But to my knowledge, GFW's blocking policies are quite lacking transparency. There's no regulation or law that defining visiting Google or Facebook is illegal, or the websites themselves are illegal websites. So if one asked deeper, the response from ISP could be different. Though keep asking the ISP hard questions as a foreigner is kinda unusual and risky, so I don't expect you'd do that.
Some years ago in my capacity as GM of International Business for a large Chinese SOE I was invited to a round-table discussion with the local government regarding how they could better support export-oriented businesses. This is how it went:
The government representatives, meanwhile, had not understood a single word because they were all older, technologically illiterate comrades wholly unqualified for their positions "supporting" modern multi-national businesses.
In my 10 years in China I haven’t even come across an avenue via which such a request could be delivered. The idea is compelling, though, and I would love to hear what others experienced. Side question: of course an option would be to use an international SIM card. Does anyone know the best roaming deal - e.g. are there Western SIM cards that offer unlimited data roaming in China?
My pleasure. In 2016 I enrolled on a business trip to America and pre-paid for an entire year's worth of service, then used it for 7 days in America and 358 days overseas, mostly in China. It worked fine and T-Mobile didn't complain.
You can't talk about laws when the country has no rule of law. They could have a law allowing free speech and no one would give a shit because they're not forced to follow it.
So in real life, you'd have your isp worker going full meibanfa on you untill you escalate up to a manager that knows his shit and gives you the choice to choose a special internet line for a crazy high price.
You may have heard the hearsay that Chinese law enforcement treat foreigners relatively better than they treat the locals. (I don't know if it's true though. Eg, if a Chinese lost his phone and called the police, he would likely be told it's not going to be found if it's stolen and be careful next time, that's it. If a foreigner lost his phone and called the police, the police would put much more effort of finding the phone back to its owner.)
Are you sure about that? I've never been the victim of pickpocketing or petty theft myself, but my understanding based on what friends have told me is exactly the opposite of what you've written here.
Not sure about that. I've never been the victim neither. You could try google "外国人代报警", Chinese people are wondering if this is true as well.
my phone was stolen in wuhan, i was 没办法‘d even though it happened in a very public place full of cameras.  they couldn't be bothered. literally snatch and grab'd it at 光谷.  Was an iPhone 4 (5 just came out)
my gf's phone was stolen at a place she worked, video of the guy, crystal clear...again 没办法'd  (this one was her iphone 7 that was like a week old)
so all these videos they're putting out about facial recognition and big brother watching every street, blah blah blah, it doesn't mean shit if they cant be bothered to do anything about it
I believe the facial recognition you are referring is a new thing, just implemented recently because of the 19th. So there actually is an excuse they could find for all the 没办法s. I'm aware of this because I've been observing SenseTime for some time. All the POI thing was came from this "star" company.
I agree with you, the low efficiency in every gov dept makes me feel sick. They just can't be bothered to do what they should do. 光谷 is kind of a well developed place, in my imaginary land, the police there should have worked better than that. For what it's worth, I'm sorry for your lost. But I'm glad to hear that they treat us equally. /s 
You could try to get your iPhone X stolen this time, feel the power of big brother, though the thieves out there might also be quiet during the 19th. ;) 
It was years ago now, so probably yea.  Back like 2012/3 lol I usually use android and use it today but at that time i was able to get a unlocked iphone 4s pretty cheap so i got it before coming here 
When my British friend got hustled at Wangfujing in Beijing, the first cops he talked to said the cameras pointing at the site of the incident were all broken. And then the cop who watched the security footage with him  after he finally got somebody to listen said that there was probably nothing to be done even after he saw the face of the dude walking away with his friend's wallet.
I naively believe there's a legal way of providing full Internet access to foreigners (even to the Chinese citizens), I still do. 
Yes you’re naive! Though actually it is possible for companies to pay for lines out of the country that allow unfettered access to the internet. Ordinary foreign plebs like us? No...
If you are an expat in Shanghai's new free trade zone you can pay extra for a faster and slightly less restricted internet. Doesn't exist in other places.
In Shenzhen you can call and bitch about bad latency and if you call often enough they will connect to some supervisor who does some hocus pocus and your internet improves slightly.
Rendered by PID 98508 on  app-183  at 2017-10-27 09:06:50.489325+00:00 running 2c9616a country code: SG.