China has a ton of regional variation when it comes to food. Some of the tastiest and most popular regional cuisines come from 8 provinces: Anhui, Guangdong, Fujian, Hunan, Jiangsu, Shandong, Sichuan, and Zhejiang. They're a mouthful to say, so someone thought it was a good idea to group them together and call them the "Eight Great Regional Cuisines". As it turns out, the number "8" also happens to be the luckiest number in Chinese culture! But that's a different story. Here we just want to provide a brief intro of the eight different provinces and their cuisines. So if you aren't familiar with them or just want to learn more, go forth and scroll!
Guangzhou is now a sparking metroplis and one of the best places in the world to find Guangdong food.
These geographical advantages have provided Cantonese people with ready access to a large variety of both local and imported ingredients. In fact, Cantonese people are infamous for eating animals that many other Chinese people don't normally eat. This includes snakes, snails, and even dogs! There's a popular saying about the Cantonese palette: "Anything that walks, swims, crawls, or flies with its back to heaven must be edible". In other words, if you're not human, you might just be unlucky enough to find yourself on a Cantonese dish!
Nanjing, which can be directly be translated as "Southern Capital", served as the capital of various Chinese dynasties. Jiangsu cuisine's reputation as being refined is likely rooted in Nanjing's past connection to the high class taste of the elite.
Bi luo shrimp, which is made by boiling shrimp with bi luo tea, giving the dish a delicious herbal flavor.
Humble Administrator's Garden in Suzhou. Perfect place to take a stroll and reminisce about that last time you ate delicious Suzhou style noodles and bi luo shrimp.
One of Hangzhou's most famous dish is "Beggar's Chicken". It's not the most appetizing name, but the dish is famous for a good reason (hint: it's delicious). The story goes that a Hangzhou beggar had stolen a chicken from a farm. But the beggar didn't have any pots or utensils to prepare the chicken. So he came up with an idea. He wrapped the chicken in lotus leaves and packed it with clay to form a makeshift pot. Then he dug a hole in the ground, lit it with fire, and buried the chicken to cook. When he dug up and unwrapped the chicken, he discovered that baking the chicken in lotus leaves and clay had made the chicken unbelievably tender and aromatic.
After eating his fill, he realized he had an incredibly delicious discovery on him. So he stole some more chickens, cooked them using his patented process, and sold them on the streets of Hangzhou. Beggar's Chicken™ caught on with the locals and the former beggar and thief became a successful food vendor and lived happily ever after.
Hong shao rou is also known as Mao's Braised Pork because the dish is famous for being Mao's favorite dish.
General Tso's chicken was invented by a Taiwanese chef who was trained in Hunanese cuisine and the dish is named after a famous Hunanese general.
Tsingtao beer is perhaps China's most recognizable beer brand. Their brewery is located in Qingdao, Shandong. The Tsingtao logo with the image of the pier is based on Qingdao's iconic pier.