If you are new, please read our posting guidelines and search the subreddit for commonly answered questions.      
Please post in English where possible. Chinese submissions should be accompanied by English translations and submitted with English titles as 99% of reddit users cannot read Chinese.
When linking to news articles, please use the original title, or a straightforward and accurate one of your own. Editorialized, provocative, inaccurate, sensationalist, and/or misleading titles may result in the removal of the post. If you add an opinion byline, please ensure that it is immediately clear which part is opinion.
Banks often serve large companies; they don’t have the ability to serve small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) well
What Manchu resources. Books, audiovisual foremost, but also curious about presential classes or tutors, if only for reference
Translation: This is what the dirty foreigns want to hear so their greed will outweigh their common sense for another decade. 
Translation: I know the peasants are fucking angry about this one. This should keep the lid on the pot until we work out what the fuck we're doing.
Renewed efforts to alleviate poverty in China by 2020. Xi said 60 million Chinese were lifted out of poverty over the last five years.
Increased focus on the environment and green energy. “We will promote a revolution in energy production and consumption,” said Xi. Focus will be on environmental regulation agencies, creating eco-friendly systems and decrease air pollution “to make our skies blue again”. 
Translation: If we can't clean this shit up, it won't matter who is a leading power by 2050 because the whole world will look like that WALL-E movie.
Translation: We know we would get curb stomped if we actually fought a war in the next several decades.  
Continue the current “One Country, Two Systems” with Hong Kong and Macau. Xi said the regions’ “return to the Motherland” under the new system has been a “resounding success” and the current system will help deliver long-term prosperity. Also, Xi reinforced China’s position that it will not tolerate complete independence of Taiwan. 
You are right. I am sure that they will start taxing soon. There is absolutely no way that they will not do that.
The question is how many percentage of this revenue will be spent on public education, and will the tenants obtain the same education resource as the landlords. Most Beijing natives would be reluctant to give up the most valuable privilege benefited from their Hukou but the turning point is coming.
In Texas, we split state and federal funding equally between school districts. The wealthier districts still manage to provide a much better education. 
I can understand the frustration of someone who made a lot of sacrifices to get a hukou and get their kids into good schools. But to be a successful nation, the people really need to consider the needs of others.
Foreign investors must not have heard Xi the first ten times, that's why they're not rushing to put their money in and never see it again. 
Translation: We still don't want you in our markets, but we want your money to support struggling state-owned enterprises in key sectors without giving you any equity voting rights. Thus, "mixed ownership"
Translation: We're getting near the first end-of-property-rights time period on batches of property. It turns out property is making people fucking rich, and we want to make "people" into "us only", so we're converting into a permanent rent/real estate tax scheme ASAP.  This will be how we announce it, let's see how it goes over with the peasants.
Renewed efforts to alleviate poverty in China by 2020. Xi said 60 million Chinese were lifted out of poverty over the last five years.
Translation: This is my badge of honor, unite behind me, my brothers, as we take on the unjust and corrupted wealthy people (who happens to have stood on the wrong political team).  Nevermind where their money went, I've commanded those who remain to share their wealth with you!
Increased focus on the environment and green energy. “We will promote a revolution in energy production and consumption,” said Xi. Focus will be on environmental regulation agencies, creating eco-friendly systems and decrease air pollution “to make our skies blue again”.
Translation: It turns out pollution is a great excuse for me to bludgeon local municipalities who refuse to go along with my grand plans for redistricting the Pearl River Delta, the Yangtze River Delta, and the JJJ regions due to vested economic interests: who knew?! As for actual green energy? I'll cut subsidies to solar, make sure the state grid still make it impossible for natural gas and alternative energy to compete with coal on-grid prices, and give my buddies at Shenhua Shendong a high five!
Translation: Like dear Mao said, "political power stems from the number of guns you control" Don't forget who's in charge here.
Continue the current “One Country, Two Systems” with Hong Kong and Macau. Xi said the regions’ “return to the Motherland” under the new system has been a “resounding success” and the current system will help deliver long-term prosperity. Also, Xi reinforced China’s position that it will not tolerate complete independence of Taiwan.
The stupid thing is that most of those goals are facially achievable--they're good goals that aren't unreasonable.  The reality, however, is basically what you translated.
Are you talking about illegally employed foreigners? I am a legal worker and I will be married to a Chinese national next year 
It depends, if the Chinese national is a woman, it's a national treason, but if it's a man, it's the pride of the nation.
Yep. Every single foreigner will be expelled by 2030, legally or illegally employed. They are also phasing out minority nationality citizens 少数民族. Pure Han by 2035.
World leader in everything environmental. That bad air in North is just because of barbecue and cars.
I sometimes think that China might try to make all housing developments less than 50% occupied after one year required to be turned over to the government and used as public housing. Would be fun to watch what comes out of it
It's almost like living and working in China for years, marrying and having a child in China, having Chinese friends and in-laws, makes people dislike the CCP? Why would that be?
Please, person who has never been to China (but totally knows some "real Chinese" college students), please tell us how we SHOULD feel towards the totally not corrupt or amoral CCP? 
Boy we are making big assumptions about strangers on the Internet... And even more assumptions, like assuming I said the CCP was "totally not corrupt" which I never said, so you must assume I believe. Even the Party does not say that.
Not really an assumption. You mentioned you had Chinese friends who are students. This would most likely mean you are also a student, as most Chinese students don't have a wide social net. If you're a student, you haven't been to China.
I don't hate China, or it's people. I hate the CCP for the horrible things they do to their own people. China is the land of quick wealth and Ferraris, but it's also a land of unspeakable hardship and sorrow. 
Western countries beat China in almost every conceivable category, from GDP per capital to pollution to public trust. 
If you're a student, you haven't been to China.
You might have visited China, but you haven't been there.
I'll take "moving the goal posts" for $800, Alex. I lived in China for close to a year and visited twelve cities outside of Beijing. Describing China as a "land of quick wealth and Ferraris" or of "unspeakable hardship and sorrow" is a gross oversimplification, one that most Chinese would take offense to and with which would vehemently disagree.
Western countries beat China in almost every conceivable category, from GDP per capital to pollution to public trust.
I don't believe I ever said anything to the contrary. Obviously Western countries are in many ways better off, it isn't some miracle considering they had a head start going back to the Industrial Revolution and how Western countries cooperate with each other while excluding others who don't kowtow to the white man's supposed supremacy in all things. But China is advancing quickly and in some ways has already caught up with the US and Europe. For example, China's high speed rail has far exceeded anything in the US. In the past fifteen years the GDP per capita in China has raised nearly 10,000 USD, and there are no signs of stopping.
Keep sucking the CCP dick. Those of us who have actually experienced the CCP in action will continue to disbelieve you. 
I have plenty of examples of how the CCP fucks over individual Chinese citizens, because they are things my family has experienced. Has yours?
Name calling and curse words will get you nowhere, and is definitely not a sign of maturity. I never said I completely understand everyone and everything in China. All I am saying is, judging by all the big numbers and metrics, China has improved by a large margin over the past ten, twenty, thirty years, and that the vast majority of Chinese people that I know, not just students but older and middle-aged people as well, have an overall positive opinion on the development of China. I don't know anything about you or your "examples", but my own experiences with Chinese people and China, and just looking at the raw numbers leads me to think China is not as bad as you or the Western media represents it.
The raw data? That's provided directly from the CCP. Wow, how amazing that the CCP's data shows that the CCP is successful. 
How much time have you spent in the countryside, among the peasants? Life is nice in T1 China, but do you think the people in the villages have such a nice life? 
The raw data provided by the government is being agreed upon and confirmed by outside sources. It is unquestionable to any foreign observers that go to China and look at the facts that China in most fields has had major successes.
And of course, there are still many people in serious poverty in China, Ci Jinping himself would not deny that. But things are getting better and the government right now is devoting serious efforts to improve that as well, it's called Targeted Poverty Alleviation, which is a major topic at the current National Congress.
And yet, if you ask most actual Chinese people, they are quite content with the current leadership. It's a bit presumptuous to think you know better than they do for their own well-being, the echoes of imperialist, white man's burden thinking. Apparently any political system which is not a carbon copy of the West is to be defined as "tyranny."
Oh, there's no such thing as human rights! There's no such thing as independent judiciary! There's no such thing as free press! There's no such thing as separate of party and state! These are all just weapons "the west" uses to bludgeon strong, independent dictatorships who don't need no freedom!
Your posts do not respond to any of my points, just random straw grasping and loaded statements. It would be too much to go into each of them, but China is far from denying the existence of human rights, and admits to past failures. There have been major improvements since the 60's and 70's. Why not just answer my post properly?
You're right. China is far from denying the existence of human rights. They just twist the (traditionally accepted) meaning to their favor and blab about bringing 300 million people out of poverty, which is a feat in it's own right, but this is an issue that involves more than just economic development. Clearly you're a troll, given your condescending tone, or you're just an idiot for trying to assert control over the moral high ground (concerning China and human rights, really?).
"Anybody that posits an opposing point of view must be paid to do so" is a pretty narrow-minded way of seeing things.
China has successfully brought hundreds of millions of people out of poverty, probably about the equivalent of the entire population of the EU. At the same time, China is definitely not a perfect example of human rights, but Europe and the West are also very far from perfect. And in the past thirty years, there have been major improvements. And can't human rights also include the right to work, to food in your stomach and a roof over your head? If so, then the improvements have been very meaningful in the past few decades.
This whole lifting people out of poverty thing is absolute bull crap.  100 years ago the entire world was mired in poverty. If anything the criminal fucking CCP has prevented China from fulfilling its potential with their fucked up pre-reform/Deng economic system. If they'd been governed like normal nations a lot more people will have been a lot more wealthy for a lot more time already. Lifted millions out of poverty, bullshit. Despite the total economic mismanagement of the CCP the rising tide prompted by Western economic development luckily lifted China's boat too. 
Tell that to the people who thirty years ago who lived on a few hundred US dollars a year who now live decent lives where they no longer have to worry about starving or lack of electricity across China. I'm sure if you asked them, they would say it was not "bull crap."
100 years ago, the average person in the US, Western Europe, and even Japan was much, much better off than China. China in the late 19th century and early 20th was constantly being transgressed against by the West and Japan, territory after territory sold off to foreign powers, hundreds of millions still suffered under feudalism, and modern technology could only be found in the imperial palace or in foreign outpost. Then after, the country was mired in Civil War, warlord despotism and finally Japanese invasion. It was only after 1949 that the country resumed any sense of stability.
Putting aside the fact that not all post 1949, pre 1978 policies were negative, it's also pretty misguided to blame the sins of the past on the current generation of leadership.
By "normal", do you mean Western, white nations that had not had to deal with the same iniquities and abuse that China was dealing with beforehand? Furthermore, whose economic development was propped up big time by Uncle Sam's Marshall Plan, of which China didn't receive a penny despite shedding tens of millions lives in the global fight against fascism? Talk about comparing apples and oranges.
And yet, this "Western lifting tide" has only generated less than 3% GDP growth per year for most Western nations, while China has been very much above that rate for decades? The CCP must be doing something right to be getting such return on investment, don't you think?
I know many Chinese (actual Chinese from China) here in the United States that still have an overall positive perception of their country and when they're done with their studies eventually plan to go back. They live here in the West and are exposed to everything there is here, and yet they are not all of a sudden converted disciples to the white man's "superior" political systems.
I know many Chinese (actual Chinese from China) here in the United States that still have an overall positive perception of their country and when they're done with their studies eventually plan to go back
If the West really offered something miraculous compared to China, I really doubt empty slogans would be able to keep Chinese from fleeing China. In the past, this was actually the case. Millions left China in the past and never looked back. Now the majority of Chinese that leave China eventually go back. There must be something good, worthwhile in China to make this the case.
EDIT: also, the Japanese model was just as good economically, and is heavily West-based, albeit with lots of locally specific elements, and it could offer democracy. Why not try that for a change?
The current model (which you erroneously deride as "fascism" [after all, any government system we don't like, we can just call fascism and be done with it]) is working just fine for China, and arguably is not too dissimilar from what Japan was doing in the Meiji era. Why should China just blindly follow the examples of other countries when the current model is working just fine. A GDP per capita growth of almost 10,000 from a few hundred dollars thirty years ago is a spectacular result. Not to mention, the current "Japanese model" is absolutely fruitless, they have not had any significant economic growth since the 1990's. Why does every country have to kowtow to the West and Japan, blindly copy them and say "yes master" to Uncle Sam? 
Why does every country have to kowtow to the West and Japan, blindly copy them and say "yes master" to Uncle Sam?
I date an 'actual' chinese so I'm aware of how impossible it to change their mind. But they've had an entire life of propaganda so it figures that'd be the case. They're raised not to question politics, and to them loyalty to the party is loyalty to the country. 
And you are so sure of yourself not having been equally indoctrinated? You weren't raised to idolize Washington, Lincoln, Roosevelt, Kennedy? I know that I was.
Do you assume you know better than your Chinese friend what is best for her and her country? This is the Western "missionary" mindset. We always think we know what is best for others, and we must convert everyone to our ways.
I’m an American female and he’s a Chinese man, we plan to live in China, not the US... usually when I say who is what gender people calm down 
Rendered by PID 99571 on  app-199  at 2017-10-27 09:03:39.548182+00:00 running 2c9616a country code: SG.