While the internet has always been a key battleground for the Party, the past 12 months have seen a marked increase in censorship, with new laws and regulations targeting online expression even in areas or on certain topics where dissent was once tolerated or passed undetected. 
Li Hongkuan is more experienced than most in battling the censors and pushing the boundaries of free speech in China. 
From self-imposed exile in the US, he once ran VIP Reference, an online newsletter compiling banned news and political gossip that was sent to thousands of subscribers beyond the Great Firewall.
In sprawling group chats hundreds of members strong, with names like "Big Uncle's Lecture Hall," Li and dozens of others share news from dissident websites, messages of defiance and viral photos. 
However, Li has become a casualty of a new type of internet censorship which intrudes into previously private areas where limited dissent -- or at least discussion around dissent -- was once tolerated. 
Posts Li shares on the US version of the app are blocked from appearing in China, and he says he is now "banned from joining in group discussions."
WeChat owner Tencent did not respond to a request for comment about the new regulations, but they appear to be widely implemented:
While previous political events have also coincided with internet crackdowns, the MERICS researchers found there has been a shift toward "Party and state institutions increasingly interfer(ing) in people's lives." 
Social media sites, blog networks and publishers have long been forced to censor mentions of everything from religious movements and homosexuality to anti-government protests and calls for Tibetan independence. 
"Digital technologies many thought might disrupt the Party's dominance of the agenda" have instead allowed the state to involve themselves in citizens' "most intimate conversations," he said. 
The approach of the 19th National Congress of the Chinese Communist Party has seen a marked increase in internet censorship. 
"While China stresses the need for global connectivity and openness, it continues to strengthen the world's most sophisticated system of Internet control and press censorship," the US Congressional-Executive Committee on China said in a new report.  
But Charlie Smith, founder of censorship tracker GreatFire.org, was skeptical, arguing that the notion that restrictions are relaxed after sensitive events have passed isn't borne out over the long run. 
He predicted the censors would "100% shore up the gains" they have made in recent months, building the Great Firewall higher and higher.