If you are new, please read our posting guidelines and search the subreddit for commonly answered questions.      
Please post in English where possible. Chinese submissions should be accompanied by English translations and submitted with English titles as 99% of reddit users cannot read Chinese.
When linking to news articles, please use the original title, or a straightforward and accurate one of your own. Editorialized, provocative, inaccurate, sensationalist, and/or misleading titles may result in the removal of the post. If you add an opinion byline, please ensure that it is immediately clear which part is opinion.
Banks often serve large companies; they don’t have the ability to serve small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) well
What Manchu resources. Books, audiovisual foremost, but also curious about presential classes or tutors, if only for reference
I've been looking (without success) for any association or group of action that protects consumers, merchants and companies against the well known problem of Chinese imports, which very frequently cheat the customs and introduce products that are not only of a lower quality but in many cases dangerous.
In Europe the law says that the only responsible is the importer, since it's hard to pursue the producer overseas, and it makes sense but I think this is a conformist approach, and I believe more can be done.
I didn't find any such association or group. I know there are entities like the European Consumer Centre and similar but I've been looking for something more like an NGO and non-profit organizations. If anybody knows of anything that might be related please post it here .. in Europe or USA all are OK,,  thanks a lot
So you are expecting to find some sort of association or NGO that will pursue shady Chinese suppliers? Do you think that the Chinese government will help you? Hahahahahaha.
I've been looking (without success) for any association or group of action that protects consumers, merchants and companies against the well known problem of Chinese imports, which very frequently cheat the customs and introduce products that are not only of a lower quality but in many cases dangerous.
This is exactly the kind of thing I'm looking for. I wasn't sure how to explain it in English. Thanks!
Rendered by PID 105227 on  app-135  at 2017-10-27 09:03:51.477280+00:00 running 2c9616a country code: SG.