Chinese president channelled Hugo Chávez with marathon 65-page sermon setting out vision for Communist party
Chinese president channelled Hugo Chávez with marathon 65-page sermon setting out vision for Communist party
China's president, Xi Jinping, called corruption the greatest threat to the Communist party’s survival in his opening speech to the week-long congress meeting on Wednesday. However, the problem is largely a product of the one-party political system he leads.
Xi’s soliloquy began shortly after 9am in the Great Hall of the People, a vast scarlet-carpeted theatre in Tiananmen Square that is the ceremonial heart of Communist party rule.
“Comrades,” Xi began. “On behalf of the 18th central committee of the Communist party of China, I will now deliver a report to the 19th national congress.”
Over the next 203 minutes Xi waxed lyrical on a miscellany of themes, from housing to Hong Kong independence; soil erosion to the South China Sea; rural poverty to the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation; cyber-security to corruption; Marxism to military modernisation; global governance to global warming.
One moment Xi was an environmental evangelist. “Lucid waters and lush mountains are invaluable assets,” he said. “We should be good friends to the environment … for the sake of human survival.”
The next he was a theoretician: “Everyone in the party should develop a good grasp of the essence and rich implications of the Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era and fully and faithfully apply it in our our work,” Xi said. “Our revolutionary ideals soar beyond the skies.”
But after 90 minutes of Xi’s talkathon, the end was nowhere in sight and through binoculars it was possible to see party officials beginning to flag. 
yawned, dozed and occasionally grappled with a large white magnifying glass in an apparent effort to stay awake
As the minutes, and then hours went by, a succession of senior leaders wandered off stage through a golden curtain, as biological necessities began to speak louder than political loyalty.
Up in the press gallery there was fidgeting too. Black-clad security guards amused themselves by posing for photographs. At the two-hour 15 mark, a text message flashed up on the Guardian’s mobile phone from another spectator: “Jinping Castro,” it said.
However, as delegates streamed out of Xi’s far-reaching declamation there was nothing but admiration for the thoughts of a man increasingly seen as China’s most powerful – and feared – leader since Mao. 
“What an exciting speech!” gushed Fu Chunli, a delegate from the far western region of Xinjiang. “Such a good report, written into the hearts of 1.3 billion people!”
“Yes [long] – but exciting,” agreed Tang Jialing, a third emissary. “I hope all party members – like me – can turn this blueprint into reality as soon as possible.”
Might Xi’s address have been too long? “I think he just read it a little bit slower,” Kuhn replied, diplomatically. “And in a very confident way.”
“I can’t hold it any more,” one female delegate confessed, declining an interview request as she made a dash for the toilets outside the hall’s main auditorium. “I really need to go to the loo!”
His suffering as a teenager under the excesses of Maoism has not stopped the president pursuing unassailable authority
While the explosion of sycophancy over China’s president may seem almost comical, his reign will have ramifications far beyond the country’s borders
In his Communist party speech Xi’s ambition and confidence were on display. He wants nothing less than for China to be the world’s most important country