If you are new, please read our posting guidelines and search the subreddit for commonly answered questions.      
Please post in English where possible. Chinese submissions should be accompanied by English translations and submitted with English titles as 99% of reddit users cannot read Chinese.
When linking to news articles, please use the original title, or a straightforward and accurate one of your own. Editorialized, provocative, inaccurate, sensationalist, and/or misleading titles may result in the removal of the post. If you add an opinion byline, please ensure that it is immediately clear which part is opinion.
Banks often serve large companies; they don’t have the ability to serve small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) well
What Manchu resources. Books, audiovisual foremost, but also curious about presential classes or tutors, if only for reference
https://www.google.com.hk/amp/s/www.cnbc.com/amp/2017/03/02/chinas-parliament-has-about-100-billionaires-according-to-data-from-the-hurun-report.html
Isn't it amazing how they are all billionaires and yet the corruption probe doesn't start with the richest and work down?
Almost as if Someone is deliberately picking targets for corruption probes based on some other factor.  
Actually I heard corruption tends to exist more at lower levels of Chinese government due to the fact dodgy officials are so far removed from central supervision. I don't agree with everything the CCP do but I won't hold them to western democratic standards of government accountability when they're not a western democracy.
成为 to become, to turn into. 
小康社会 Society in which the needs of most of society is met And most people are moderately affluent. I think it comes from a Confucius proverb or something.
Thanks! It took me a while to figure out this is a meme and not a poem haha. Is this a reasonable translation?
Just say middle class society. I think that rolls over the tongue better and it conveys the meaning as well. 
Rendered by PID 25224 on  app-12  at 2017-10-27 09:01:41.046802+00:00 running 2c9616a country code: SG.