If you are new, please read our posting guidelines and search the subreddit for commonly answered questions.      
Please post in English where possible. Chinese submissions should be accompanied by English translations and submitted with English titles as 99% of reddit users cannot read Chinese.
When linking to news articles, please use the original title, or a straightforward and accurate one of your own. Editorialized, provocative, inaccurate, sensationalist, and/or misleading titles may result in the removal of the post. If you add an opinion byline, please ensure that it is immediately clear which part is opinion.
Banks often serve large companies; they don’t have the ability to serve small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) well
What Manchu resources. Books, audiovisual foremost, but also curious about presential classes or tutors, if only for reference
I'm not Chinese nor have I lived in China so I'm not too familiar with this, but is there a deeper underlying reason for moha memes? Or is it really because it's just funny?
Long story.
To make it simple, I will just call Jiang Zemin as Toad or Toad Toad. I'll explain later.
It all begins in year 2000, where a Hong Kong news reporter interviewed the Toad and asked him some questions that have angered him. Toad did not respond in his usual, put away his kind and friendly face, and instead scolded the news reporter.
Due to "some reasons that we all know", the video was only uploaded till many years later, in Baidu Tieba, which is basically the exact same thing as Reddit(except the owner here doesn't get bribed to spam porn posted by 6 digit number of robots once per a fraction of a second on all the subs).
Of course the bar (bar in Tieba = subreddit) had boiled instantly. People started to know about their hilarious Ex-chairman and jokes, both positive and negative towards Toad, started to appear.
And nobody in the right mind would believe that PRC would allow that.
But anyway, since then Toad became from hated to worshiped. Before people just thought he was a chairman who supported being corrupt and being cruel and stuff. Since then, most people worship him to criticize him, about his humour and how much better he is than his successor, Hu. 
In year 2009 (I think) he visited a place which I don't remember the name, and that just created a whole bunch of new memes and reasons to worship.
And the talk with Mike Wallace in 2000 (once the video spilled out probably the same time as the previous) did the same.
(BTW he referred to himself as an elder in "scolding HK news reporter" so we also call him elder now quite often.)
People worship him, maybe for being tired of seeing Hu's face that never bothers to give a smile, or just because Toad seems to be more lively and better an to like, people just "worship" him. In the early times of this simply meant more sarcasm and criticism than showing any admire. But soon after a series of events that could literally take me talking about it for a day, people's attitude changed from sarcasm to, jesting. (?) Whatever the reason, still some people think it is funny, while others believe that the entire idea of moha is complete b%llsh#t.
Young people like to use memes. Young people are the liberal voice in China. Young people sleep in Communist Education class or play with their cell phone.
Jiang was the last top guy who had character, a personality, or willingness to speak his mind. Hu and Xi both look like zombies who just read scripts with with an expressionless face. 
The reality sucks so much, that everything in the past, no matter good or bad, seems now just to be a glory. For the vast majority of those who were born in 70s and 80s, the best memory was in the early 2000s when Jiang was in charge. If you were one of those born in 50s, you would probably worship Mao if you did not get too rich in early 90s, otherwise Deng. 
For the vast majority of those who were born in 70s and 80s, the best memory was in the early 2000s when Jiang was in charge.
In that decade, China just joined WTO and economy flourished. Now it is merely maintained, with cumulating debt. The censorship on the internet was close to nothing compared with that of today.
Is it then fair to say that the popularity of Jiang and Moha is in a subtle way a backhanded critique of Hu and Xi?
IMHO, there is weak correlation but the object of critique is not limited to the two successors but includes a broader spectrum of the establishment, according to the context, usually something deteriorating at present.
Its unheard of for the General Secretary of Communist Party of China to speak in any other language besides Mandarin, but in this video, Jiang was speaking in English and sputtering of  Cantonese.
At least he’s like a real person, with intelligent, sense of humor and even temper. Compare to the other two resting bitch faces after him.
Rendered by PID 32572 on  app-298  at 2017-10-27 08:55:41.490025+00:00 running 2c9616a country code: SG.