If you are new, please read our posting guidelines and search the subreddit for commonly answered questions.      
Please post in English where possible. Chinese submissions should be accompanied by English translations and submitted with English titles as 99% of reddit users cannot read Chinese.
When linking to news articles, please use the original title, or a straightforward and accurate one of your own. Editorialized, provocative, inaccurate, sensationalist, and/or misleading titles may result in the removal of the post. If you add an opinion byline, please ensure that it is immediately clear which part is opinion.
Banks often serve large companies; they don’t have the ability to serve small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) well
What Manchu resources. Books, audiovisual foremost, but also curious about presential classes or tutors, if only for reference
Although I don't know how hard the family planning department would try to make people not violate the rules in the first place, that's how they make money so they might not have really wanted to ensure that no one ever broke the rules.
I worked with The NYT to report on a story of a woman in Beijing in the 90s who was practically forced to have an abortion. Her work unit refused to give her a permit to have a child because she applied after she was pregnant. She had the baby anyway in the end.
I was translator/news consultant for the journalist. It was educational but also convinced me I didn't want to be a journalist.
I can't really say but my two cents is that if someone is already struggling to make it financially til the end of the month it could be kinda worrying to have to pay more taxes.
Considering the large amount of unregistered children (mostly girls, there was a post about that on the sub about 2-3 days ago), I guess the consequences were frightening enough to screwed it up.
I see, thanks for the Info. I would think they did, as governments usually go with being safer than sorry.
I "remember" (note the quotes) a documentary I saw like 20 years ago on TV (so yeah... "remember") about unwanted toddlers girls tied to high chairs in orphanage. The voice over explained they were display like that in order to let them to accidentally fell on the floor and kill themselves if they move too much.
DISCLAIMER: Take that with a big chunk of salt, I was a kid, long time ago, and probably impressed by TV sensationalism.
Although the reason they were tied up was because they wouldn't go anywhere. Whether they died or not was irrelevant I assume. 
Honestly, it was so long time ago I couldn't tell if it's that or not. But this one is horrifying too.
Those who live in the cities will not have a another child regardless because of financial reasons. Those who live in rural area are too uneducated to give a damn, they will have another child regardless, 
Rendered by PID 41443 on  app-278  at 2017-10-27 09:02:51.059995+00:00 running 2c9616a country code: SG.