Internet and social-media platforms have become an increasingly popular source of news as smartphones have come to permeate every aspect of daily life in China.
HONG KONG — Some ambitious Chinese online media companies have won backing from a very powerful investor: the Chinese government itself.
Two small companies — a military news site called Tiexue and a news aggregator called Zaker — have recently offered stakes to affiliates of the Chinese government or the Communist Party, according to company documents and official media. The deals are part of a government drive to exercise oversight over media companies through special shares that grant their holders outsize influence over management and content.
The two firms are relatively small. And Chinese cyberspace regulators have been busy tightening controls in more forceful ways over the past few months ahead of an important Communist Party gathering set to begin next week.
But the deals struck with the two online news companies could be a sign of things to come. The news media in China is becoming more difficult to police as readers and outlets migrate online and onto social media. Experts said that if the deals work, the authorities could eventually ask for stakes at some of the country’s largest and most innovative companies in order to solidify influence over their services.
The Chinese authorities traditionally have issued guidelines and outright orders to major internet companies about what they would like to see and not see online, said Mark Natkin, managing director of Marbridge Consulting, a tech advisory firm in Beijing.
“As these companies have grown both in size and influence,” he said, “that model is no longer comfortable for the authorities.”
In China as elsewhere, internet and social media platforms have become an increasingly popular source of news as smartphones have come to permeate every aspect of daily life. According to government statistics, more than four-fifths of China’s more than 730 million internet users obtained some news online last year. More than 570 million people used news apps, up nearly one-fifth over the previous year.
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
The State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television, a powerful Chinese media regulator, recommended last year that the government take small but significant stakes in media companies. Called “special management shares,” these would represent a stake of as little as 1 percent. Still, they would give Chinese officials seats on company boards and the right to review media content.
Teng Bingsheng, a Shanghai-based professor at Cheung Kong Graduate School of Business, said a resurgence of economic nationalism in China is fueling concerns about the ownership of the country’s technology companies, whose major shareholders sometimes include international private-equity firms.
“People look at their equity structure and they say, ‘Wow, this is actually not a Chinese company because their largest shareholders are not Chinese,’” Mr. Teng said.
The government’s stakes in tech firms may be small at first, he said. “But once the door is opened, eventually they may ask for more.”