China has long faced doubts about the veracity of its economic data and concerns about its rapidly rising level of indebtedness.  While defaults and individual incidents raised questions about debt discrepancies, there was no systematic evidence that the financial system faced systemic misstatement. The People’s Bank of China changed that with a few sentences.
This put them only 11% (5100 basis points) behind Germany and 200-300% ahead of comparable emerging markets like Brazil, Russia, India, and Mexico.  By this measure, at the end of 2015, China was already worrying and a distinct outlier, but not completely absurd.
The PBOC report matches extremely closely official data for the on balance sheet portion of bank assets, but matches no known official data for the off balance sheet portion of assets. Nor does the PBOC provide many clues as to what these off balance assets are holding.  They do note that roughly two-thirds of the 253 trillion is held as “financial asset services” which may mean everything from structured products sold to clients who believe the bank will stand behind the product, special purpose vehicles holding non-traditional assets, or certain types of financial flows.
If we revise our earlier estimate of financial system assets to GDP based upon the new PBOC numbers, China’s position changes dramatically.  The FSB estimate of all financial systems published only in May 2017 jumps from 401% of nominal GDP to 653% of GDP at the end of 2016 for just banking system assets.
What makes this disclosure concerning is how extreme the numbers are. Even the FSB placed China among developed country financialization and well outside the range of other emerging markets. The new numbers place China on the extremity of all major economies behind only a major international banking center even in front of Japan who has run strongly expansionary monetary policy for years to try and push inflation.
We do not know what these assets hold other than three broad categories comprised of guarantee, commitment operations, and financial asset services which even then only comprise 79% of the total 253 trillion.
There are two primary ways in China that assets end up off balance sheet. First, the Enron model. In this scenario, accounting sleight of hand is used so that SPVs are used so that an entity does not have to consolidate finances of entities it effectively controls. It should be noted that this does not mean that the bank or other institutions have done anything technically illegal, only that while control may legally lie elsewhere and finances are not consolidated up to a known parent, the financial risk never leaves.  Many bad debt management schemes are where a major bank acts as manager but holds less than the controlling amount so that they can claim the debt is off their balance sheet.  In some instances, they work with other banks who contribute the capital required to ensure the manager is not aggregating financials upwards.  I even know of some instances where the banks are buying debt from other banks where the clients who are the bad debtor are contributing the majority of capital as the bank buys bad debt from other banks as the manager of a fund.  The key point is that Chinese banks are technically meeting accounting requirements to move debt off balance sheet but not transferring the risk.
It is important to note that given the size of these off balance sheet assets, this obfuscation of financial data has been occurring for many years. Even China does not go from 0 to 253 trillion RMB in one year. This implies that we need to rethink the entirety of Chinese development and finance since probably about 2000.  One truism has been that when true pictures of financial health are obtained, typically in a default, there is always enormous amount of undeclared liabilities.  We can no longer exclude that these are not isolated cases but as the PBOC has admitted, the norm rather than the exception.
The absolute size and growth of assets imply there will be enormous (as in Biblical) costs to deleverage. Let me give you a simple example. Let’s assume a flat rate of economic financialization by which I mean that nominal GDP and systemic financial asset growth are equal.  For our case here, I’m going to use similar but round stylized numbers.  In our world, financial system assets are equal to eight times nominal GDP.  Now, let’s assume that both financial system assets and nominal GDP grow at 10%.  In this stylized but similar world, financial system assets will have grown by an amount equal to 80% of GDP. If this both nominal GDP and financial system assets grow at 10%, by 2025, China will have financial system assets equal to approximately 1,900% of nominal GDP.  Because total banking system assets are so much larger than nominal GDP, simply growing both at the same pace will continue to lever up the economy.
This further implies that much of this economic boom has been driven by a hidden expansion of money and credit. As research has noted, it is much easier to stimulate activity with hidden monetary loosening than with expectations.  If the numbers the PBOC note are real, this would imply many years of hidden loosening.
This further implies there is a large (read Biblical) asset bubble. At first glance this seems to match the data.  If we look at the data on the major asset for households, real estate in tier one cities is the most expensive in the world and even the average tier two and tier three city has higher per square foot price than most of the United States.  The median price in the United States for real estate is $139 per square foot. Tier two cities in China are currently $170 with Tier three cities a more pedestrian $110.  Using conservative extrapolations of national housing prices in China yield a current average price per square foot of $191 per square foot.  To provide some perspective, residential real estate in China is 38% more expensive on a price per square foot basis but nominal per capita GDP in the United States is 608% higher.  We could point to a variety of other assets which appear vastly overvalued but given the increase in financial assets appears prone to a significant asset revaluation.
This also has significant implications for foreign exchange policy. It implies that China will maintain strict capital control measures in place for the quite some time. Let’s take a simple example that we could expand to other sectors of the Chinese economy. Assume that markets have pressure to equalize prices. Chinese citizens and firms have a very real interest in switching into similar foreign assets while foreigners have very little interest in switching into Chinese assets.  I have long noted that there is fundamentally, absent controls, a much larger structural non-cyclical interest in purchasing foreign assets by Chinese than in purchasing Chinese assets by foreigners.  Unless China is will to accept a much lower value for the RMB, they cannot allow change to foreign exchange policy.
Though I am always loathe to bring politics into discussions about Chinese economic and financial policy because politics is too unknowable in China, I think there is a little worth commenting on here though this is mostly speculation. This nugget of information was dropped in the middle of a report in an almost off handed way.  However, the magnitude of the revelation is akin to saying over dinner “I just killed five people before I arrived would you mind passing the salad dressing?” The reason this matters is that PBOC head Zhou has been making the rounds talking about a variety of things like Minsky moments and slowing corporate debt growth. I don’t think it was any coincidence that this nugget of information was dropped into conversation as Zhou appears to be heading out the door and making the rounds using language he knows will raise concern.  While it is fair to question his reformist intent, how long he will stay, and other issues, he clearly knows that discussing these issues in this manner and dropping this piece of information raise concern. If I can speculate, it appears Zhou is trying to raise the pressure to reform, without burning it down.  It does make one think that the information was released to pressure Beijing.
There is way too much we do not know about the details of this revelation. However, it is without a doubt the largest and most altering revelation to come out of the Chinese economy probably this decade. It will require a major rethink to what we think we know about the Chinese economy, how it developed, and what the future holds.
Conversion of China’s GDP to USD is rather conjectural. At average market rates, 2016 GDP of RMB 74.6 tn converts to USD 11.2 tn. But using PPP rates, which are arguably more realistic, makes it USD 21.3 tn, and larger than the United States.
And, of course, if we apply this PPP conversion to RMB-denominated debt, we come up with numbers which are utterly terrifying……
Here, if it helps, are my numbers for end-2016. The real point is how to convert to USD, market or PPP. All in RMB bn.
Definitely agree. I prefer, especially for issues of debt, to focus on cash flows which is what debt gets repaid with. Also, agree with Pettis.
The West’s tendency to treat it as The Enemy has given us a grossly distorted picture in which China, while making brief, sporadic progress in a few areas, is barely clinging to economic survival, always threatened with collapse or bankruptcy, hindered by irrational economic policies and offering little hope that the lives of average Chinese will improve–while the rest of the world moves ahead. This is what Mao meant by ‘talking nonsense’–permissible in the West’s media but prohibited in China’s. 
1. Those are seriously conservative numbers on average property prices – most tier three cities are averaging more like $3000 – $4000 per square foot. Places like Jiangmen and Foshan are already seeing prices hit 30,000 / sq meter plus, while downtown properties are more like 40k+ or higher. Changsha and Qingdao are in the 30s. Second tier cities like Nanjing, Suzhou, Wuxi, Chengdu, etc. are even higher… In places like Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen, the property purchasing restrictions have just driven speculators out into the surrounding province – hence places like Qingyuan and Kaiping (hardly centrally located metropolises) seeing a more than doubling (or tripling…) in price in one to two years. 
2. To be honest, I take issue with the idea that this monetary loosening was hidden – it was more or less out in the open, though perhaps not charted in central bankers’ reports. The “great China money ball” has been reported on for years, the amount of liquidity has been well remarked upon, the incredible growth of wealth management and shadow banking, etc. etc. This is not really new so to speak. The steady denials from the PBOC and the steadily on-marching Chinese economy has frustrated Chinese economy Cassandras for so long that it suddenly seems fresh and new that, oh wait, there may be a problem after all…
2.  By hiding the monetary loosening, I only mean to hide $40 trillion in assets. Neither myself or anyone else would argue China has run anything less than drunken sail monetary policy this decade. However, I don’t think anyone would have predicted $40 trillion in hidden financial assets.
Well, I got my accounting degree and CPA certification during the period of the Asian currency crisis, the Phar-Mor collapse, and the Enron fraud… I’ve always suspected the ultimate key to a lot of Chinese debt guarantees is a back-channel to someone who can print yuan if they have to.  The PBOC is no more independent than the PLA or the Party itself, and the broader economy was full of moral hazard even before Xi started putting his guys directly on boards. 
When China is no longer using about half the world’s cement and steel every year, that will hint deleveraging has really started.