If you are new, please read our posting guidelines and search the subreddit for commonly answered questions.      
Please post in English where possible. Chinese submissions should be accompanied by English translations and submitted with English titles as 99% of reddit users cannot read Chinese.
When linking to news articles, please use the original title, or a straightforward and accurate one of your own. Editorialized, provocative, inaccurate, sensationalist, and/or misleading titles may result in the removal of the post. If you add an opinion byline, please ensure that it is immediately clear which part is opinion.
Banks often serve large companies; they don’t have the ability to serve small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) well
What Manchu resources. Books, audiovisual foremost, but also curious about presential classes or tutors, if only for reference
I'm helping WikiTribune, a new publication that launches in a couple of weeks, in engaging with the audience. Eliciting the opinion of Reddit seemed like a necessary step for this exercise.
The goal is to provide full-context to global news stories by including communities in the reporting process. We want to build a publication that goes beyond the news cycle in the U.S. and Europe
I tend to gravitate towards political and business content. That said, I'm open to hearing queries on cultural issues as well. 
Below is a link to HEARKEN where you can offer your ideas confidentially. Also, using the link will allow me to email you, which is crucial. I want to include the question-asker in the reporting process as much as possible.
NOTE: I will be posting similar callouts in other forums. Feel free to share the HEARKEN link! It's an awesome service.
Working as a journalist in China can be really really fucking hard. I've known a few people to do it. It's really really easy if you just want to sit in one of the T1 cities and blog about culture and other BS. If you want to actually do journalism and look for stories it is much much harder. Entering on a journalist visa means your movements get way way more attention. You will meet fairly big issues when trying to travel places with actual stories. Entering on a tourist visa is your best bet, if you get a train off to the countryside for a few weeks and you sign in for your temporary residence permit upon arrival no one bats an eye. Bringing large recording devices and kit into the country will flag you up and if you try to do so on a tourist visa you risk getting barred from entry. Your best bet is to buy the kit on arrival, it's not too expensive. Keep in mind that once you actually start filming in a location where you can be seen you will have about 6 hours before the jig is up and plainclothes police will start harassing you and telling you you have to go back to the city you had your visa stamped at.
As for stories that I'd like to see, the big one is the rural/urban hukou situation and the migrant crisis. The tl;dr (from my biased perspective): rural Chinese really struggle to find work that can sustain them. They are not permitted to look for work in the cities because of their Hukou. Work in the country does not have the same safeguards that work in the city sometimes has (minimum wage, fixed hours, safety precautions ect...) so a lot of rural Chinese get exploited for their labour. This is compounded by the fact that sometimes, the people who get to decide who can get an urban hukou or transfer to a different region also are the primary "employers" in a region. This means that they can keep the population in their area from looking for work anywhere but their own factories or farms meaning they get to keep the wages as low as they like. This situation has a knock on effect of rural hukou holders traveling into cities to illegally find work. They get enticed by promises of higher wages but then they fall into all the same pitfalls that undocumented migrant workers the world over fall into (the one I have heard the most about is the workers being charged rent by their employers at a higher rate than they are paid, therefore accruing debt to their employers). Because of their hukou situation they can't look for rent elsewhere and because their employers are generally politically connected they can't look for help). This end of the story can be investigated in the major cities. If you talk to most of the workers you see building subways, roads and buildings they will generally be in a similar situation. A charity that has managed to get involved indirectly with this issue is Shanghai Sunrise, they work on helping get the children of these migrant workers access to education and healthcare (something that their "illegal status" can make it difficult to get). Another facet of this issue is racial. Urban hukou holders are overwhelmingly Han while rural hukou holders are overwhelmingly non han minority. In effect, the Han have managed to relegate the other ethnic groups to the status of second class citizens. You find in a lot of the provinces where the majority of the population is one ethnic minority, the cities still have a very very large percentage of Han people as it is far easier for people who have an urban hukou already to move to other cities, and the ruling elite will also be Han. It also goes without saying that rural areas do not get access to the same services cities do and many many towns have a several hour drive between then and a doctor. A lot of rural towns in places like Ningxia and Henan have incredible mineral wealth and pull tonnes and tonnes of rare earth out of the ground (at great expense to their health) yet the profits from such activities do not find their way back into the communities that are getting cancer as a result. The state of schools and hospitals in the region is absolutely abysmal.
edit: tl;dr: Journalism in China is tough, lie to the regime if you want to get anything done before you get deported (you will get deported either way). Read the wiki on the Hukou system and realize that it is 20fucking17 and still going on. 
The tl;dr of the Hukou system is people who live in the country can't live and work in the city. Jobs in the country pay fuck all because the person who gets to say yes/no on "can you leave the town" is also the person who owns the only place to work in the town and can yes/no business licenses. That means if you are born in the wrong town your options are work in this one guys factory, work illegally or starve. Don't forget the healthy serving of racism that goes along with it. Most urban hukou holders are Han, most rural are non-han. Virtually all positions of authority in non-han majority areas are held by Han. Yay colonialism...
I agree with you on the difficulties of real journalism in China. It seems like to get a real story, it almost has to be a hit-and-run affair. Get in, get the story, get out, and know that the reporter might get blacklisted. 
I love what you have to say about the hukou, I think it's an incredibly fucked up systems. But goddamn, homie, that was the longest TLDR I've ever seen. 
Yeah that wall of text really could use a TLDR. You can do a decent ammount of journalism if you don't get made and have a legitimate reason to be in the area. Most rural cops etc... don't have a great idea of what modern journalism looks like. If you aren't wandering around with a 3 piece crew and trying to set up shots in the middle of town they just assume you are doing touristy stuff. The real trick is getting locals to use secure comms... Even if you work with fairly canny people they still seem to not realize that wechat is still compromised even with VPN.
Yeah I think if you did real low key journalism you could escape notice, but at the same time getting people to talk to you? Obviously it can be done, there's some great docs out of China that I assume weren't government approved, but very very difficult.
Yup, everyone is at most 1 generation away from 100 flowers. The face thing is also a big issue. A lot of people feel like talking about their government's issues is like airing their dirty laundry.
Solid. Perhaps questions could be: 1) How can journalists skirt government surveillance in China? 2) Has the average Chinese citizen been exposed to independent journalism/dissident media? 
Piggybacking off of this, and the post from @Laosh, could a possible question be: Is independent journalism possible in China? 
Or you could do what the major news organizations do, and have offices in major cities and pretty much report on what the government says is true. Some dig deeper and ask questions, but that doesn't seem to be the norm. 
I do like that the BBC, for example, often points out that their reporters weren't allowed full access, allowing the reader to infer there might be something deeper. 
I think if you were to somehow avoid putting your face or name on anything you write while leaving a few months dead time between research and publication so the CPC can't correlate your movements with your publications so easily you could probably do quite a bit of good work before getting found out. 
Yeah, but isn't reputation important as a journalist? They're trying to build their name/portfolio. I know if I scooped some amazing story from China, I'd want my damn name on it!
Thank you for your response! I'm trying to summarize your points into a question that I can hopefully investigate. Let me know if I'm missing the mark...
1) What are the benefits of the Hukou system?
2) Is there something similar to the Hukou system elsewhere in the world?
3) What are the prospects of labor rights in China?
4) The Chinese are often portrayed in western media as ethnically homogenous. But what are the racial tensions in China? And how do they manifest within Chinese society? 
I think all the questions are great jumping off points. 4 I think might interest most people given the current state of race relations in the west.
Personally I think the phrasing of question 1 to be akin to asking about the benefits of Jim Crow but as I said, I'm biased. Comparing the Hukou system to similar situations in the outside world would also be an interesting way of illustrating the issue. Number 3 would be great to hear more about but can be incredibly difficult to investigate as you will be annoying people inside and out of China.
Make sure to bring recording devices that upload automatically to the cloud. For whatever reason if they get confiscated then you still have the evidence and data safely stored away.
I have always had some questions about the real estate in China, why the price of houses is so high compared to average income
Alright I like this. I also know nothing about this topic which is exciting. Possible questions ( let me know if I'm off base):
1) Is there a housing bubble in China?
2) Can the average Chinese citizen afford to buy a house?
Rendered by PID 60306 on  app-390  at 2017-10-27 08:59:51.433826+00:00 running 2c9616a country code: SG.