How Chinese scientists used a supercomputer to solve the ancient puzzle called the Three Body Problem
Like the endlessly repeating patterns of chaos theory, the new solutions discovered by the Chinese researchers make for elaborate and weirdly beautiful images when they are plotted in two dimensions
Chinese scientists have used one of the world’s fastest supercomputers to discover nearly 700 new unique and specific solutions to the Three Body Problem, according to their new paper in the journal Science China Physics Mechanics & Astronomy
How Chinese scientists used a supercomputer to solve the ancient puzzle called the Three Body Problem
In 1889, in honour of his 60th birthday King Oscar II of Sweden offered a rich prize to any scientist who could solve an ancient puzzle known as the Three Body Problem.
It was infuriatingly simple. If you know the mass, location, and velocity of three hypothetical objects, such as planets or moons, how can you predict the future path of their orbits?
The answer, as the mathematician Henri Poincaré explained in the essay which won him the king’s prize, is that you cannot — at least not with the old-fashioned algebra and calculus known to him at the time. Despite a minor scandal over an error in Poincaré’s paper, that is basically where things stood for many years.
Now, however, Chinese scientists have used one of the world’s fastest supercomputers to discover nearly 700 new unique and specific solutions to the Three Body Problem, according to their new paper in the journal Science China Physics Mechanics & Astronomy. Until now, there had only been about a dozen, mostly discovered over the last few years, each representing an orbit pattern that repeats and never leads to collision. There may be an infinite number of these solutions still waiting to be found, but there is no general solution that works in all cases.
Neither Poincaré nor the king knew it at the time, but the birthday contest sparked the first inkling of chaos theory, one of the three great scientific breakthroughs of the 20th century, along with quantum mechanics and relativity.
Two centuries earlier, in 1687, Isaac Newton had discovered how gravity works, and explained the mathematics of how it applies to two planets, varying according to the distance between them. That was a relatively simple calculation, known as an inverse square law. But he realized that if you add a third planet into the system, the math breaks down. The equations that describe the movement of the three bodies becomes what mathematicians call non-linear. The old rules do not apply. Hence, the Three Body Problem.

Isaac Newton had discovered how gravity works, and explained the mathematics of how it applies to two planets
It took a while for scientists and philosophers to come to terms with this shift. They had always assumed that the world worked by physical laws, and if you could measure initial conditions accurately enough, those laws would let you predict the future indefinitely. As James Gleick described it in his book Chaos: Making a New Science, this view was very wrong.
“There was always one small compromise, so small that working scientists usually forgot it was there, lurking in a corner of their philosophies like an unpaid bill. Measurements could never be perfect,” he wrote. “Scientists marching under Newton’s banner actually waved another flag that said something like this: Given an approximate knowledge of a system’s initial conditions and an understanding of natural law, one can calculate the approximate behaviour of the system. This assumption lay at the philosophical heart of science.”
Today we know how wrong this assumption was. The Three Body Problem is now recognized as a classic example of a chaotic system. Like the butterfly that causes a hurricane by flapping its wings, it is exquisitely sensitive to initial conditions. The tiniest tweak can have massive consequences down the line.
Predicting these orbits requires a new style of calculation that was not developed until the 20th century, and even then, only about a dozen repeating patterns were ever discovered, and only in the last few years. In most scenarios, the math shows that the Three Bodies would just keep on whirling around chaotically, never repeating their paths.
In some cases, when one of the three bodies has a very small mass, the orbits of the other two can create what are known as Lagrangian Points, locations where the gravity of the two larger objects is in perfect balance, and the smaller third object is held in a stable location. This is of great use in astronomy, for example space-based telescopes, which can be placed at the Lagrangian Points of the Earth and Moon, or Earth and Sun.
Like the endlessly repeating patterns of chaos theory, the new solutions discovered by the Chinese researchers make for elaborate and weirdly beautiful images when they are plotted in two dimensions. They are unlikely to have ever existed in reality, however. Because of how solar systems form, planets, moons and stars tend to settle into regular orbits on a single plane.
The Chinese researchers credit their discoveries to advancements in computer science and their novel technique called clean numerical simulation, which is a strategy for modelling chaotic systems, in which solutions are reached indirectly by continuous refinement, rather than directly by brute calculation.
“In this paper, we numerically obtain 695 families of Newtonian periodic planar collisionless orbits of three-body system with equal mass and zero angular momentum in case of initial conditions with isosceles collinear configuration, including the well-known figure-eight family found by Moore in 1993, the 11 families found by Šuvakov and Dmitrašinović in 2013, and more than 600 new families that have never been reported, to the best of our knowledge,” reads the report by XiaoMing Li and ShiJun Liao.
Tampa mayor tells police to bring him the head of mystery killer after string of three homicides in 11 days

						At 10,000-square-feet, the scope of Ark Two is staggering. There is a brig, mortuary, dentist’s chair, decontamination room and daycare					

						It's unclear how well North Korea has mastered missile guidance systems — meaning a misfire is possible. And Canada could also become a 'demonstration target'					
North Korea is just the tip of the stockpile: Here are all the nuclear warheads in the world visualized

						A by-the-numbers breakdown of how countries such as the United States, Russia, India, France and Israel compare					

						Robots and asteroids are likely threats, but we'll probably be wiped out by good, old-fashioned disease					
You must verify your email address before signing in. Check your email for your verification email, or enter your email address in the form below to resend the email.
Postmedia wants to improve your reading experience as well as share the best deals and promotions from our advertisers with you. The information below will be used to optimize the content and make ads across the network more relevant to you. You can always change the information you share with us by editing your profile.
By clicking "Create Account", I hearby grant permission to Postmedia to use my account information to create my account.
Postmedia wants to improve your reading experience as well as share the best deals and promotions from our advertisers with you. The information below will be used to optimize the content and make ads across the network more relevant to you. You can always change the information you share with us by editing your profile.
By clicking "Create Account", I hearby grant permission to Postmedia to use my account information to create my account.
We have sent you a confirmation email to {* emailAddressData *}. Please check your inbox and follow the instructions to confirm your email address.
We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.
Sorry, we could not verify your email address. Please enter your email below, and we'll resend the instructions for email verification.
We didn't recognize that password reset code. Please enter your email below, and we'll send you a new code to reset your password.
We've sent you an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.