However, these two competitors are not targeting the same market. In one hand, Mobike is a high-end branding segment with flashy orange wheels, incorporated satellite navigation. At the beginning the production cost was around 6,000 CNY but now there is a lighter version with a production cost between 200 and 500 CNY per unit. In the other hand, Ofo is focusing on students with their yellow bikes and cost around 250 CNY. They have a sharing economy model.
A funny fact about Ofo is that you can share your own bike. You can offer its services from one to three years and the company is going to repaint it in yellow and put an Ofo lock and plate on them.
Presents in Chengdu, Guangzhou and Shenzhen, their bikes weight 15kg, they have a GPS for localization and use QR code to unlock.
According to the latest news about this market, we were able to count around 17 other companies that offer the same service. It is possible to explain the market trend thanks to the governmental and private investments they offer for that kind of service. There are other companies such as HelloBike, 1 Step Bikes, Uni Bike…
So far they could not really complain. Everything goes smoothly, they have more and more users even if the competition is quite fierce between the different actors in this market. The latest numbers told us that Ofo has reached 20 million users and they have 51.2% share of the market for 40.1% for Mobike.
However, there are some downsides. The users of these bikes are leaving them a bit everywhere… They are even on communal parking spots. That is why the police is doing some heaving lifting with governmental trucks to move the bikes from these specific spots because it can be a burden for the residents, the shop owners and even those who own a bike or a scooter.
Another problem has appeared… These companies will have to face some challenges about the maintenance, management and also the existence of unscrupulous users who damaged or disappeared with the bikes. We have found some bikes being sold online. This problem is better supported by the actors with big investments (Mobike and Ofo) than the small companies that can be a life or death struggle for them.
Finally, you can see that even for these companies there are some cities in China that are not really bike-friendly… Let’s take the example of Chongqing called “Mountain City”.
Reduce the pollution: transport officials in Beijing want to reach 18% of commuters riding to work by 2020.
A long term vision of the Marketing Director of Ofo is to export their bikes to other countries and cities such as London, Singapore and Los Angeles. And of course be the major player in their own country.
Built on a philosophy of talented people and great results, QPSoftware LTD is a results-driven, full-service digital agency in Shanghai specializing in website design, WeChat/Mobile app development and digital marketing.