President Xi Jinping is pushing a vision of national rejuvenation during the Communist Party congress, which is expected to give him a second five-year term.
BEIJING — No part of the world seems too small, too near or too far for China’s globe-trotting president, Xi Jinping.
“Xi’s aggressive diplomacy largely comes from his own aspirations, beliefs and strategic requirements,” said Shi Yinhong, a professor of international relations at Renmin University.
Yet signs of friction in different parts of the world raise questions about how long China’s winning streak can continue, and point to the challenges that Mr. Xi faces in a second term as he presses the assertive brand of foreign policy he favors.
Chinese workers building a bridge in Laos. Mr. Xi sees his worldwide infrastructure program, the “One Belt, One Road” initiative, as a way to win friends around the world.
Deng Xiaoping, the architect of China’s economic reforms that started in the late 1970s, set a policy of keeping a low profile in international affairs and biding time. But more than his predecessors, Mr. Xi is abandoning that approach — and encountering pushback.
In Germany, a sharp increase in Chinese investment has prompted complaints that China is closing its markets even as it goes on a buying spree abroad, especially of valuable technology companies. Policy makers are considering options for retaliating.
Rising powers always face resistance. But in China’s case, that pushback comes not just from the West but also from neighbors who remember the tributary system of its imperial past — or are wary of its Communist political system despite its embrace of capitalism decades ago.
Mr. Xi has made inroads in Southeast Asia, gaining influence in Myanmar, Malaysia and Thailand. But improving ties with Myanmar’s civilian leader, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, have been offset by the deep popular mistrust of China in that country.
In Malaysia, Beijing’s investments in infrastructure have been met with accusations that the nation is selling off its sovereignty. And in Thailand, a rail project important to a new trade route from southern China has been delayed by haggling over costs.
Duncan Lewis, director general of the Australian Security Intelligence Organization, has warned of clandestine efforts to influence policy.
In Vietnam, China’s efforts to take advantage of Mr. Trump’s neglect have fallen short, said Prof. Alexander L. Vuving of the Daniel K. Inouye Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies in Honolulu. “Xi’s pressure in the midst of a weakening U.S. commitment has forced some concessions but it has also deepened Hanoi’s mistrust of Beijing,” Professor Vuving said.
Even in the Philippines, where the strongman president Rodrigo Duterte has cozied up to Beijing and distanced himself from the United States, Mr. Xi has not enjoyed a complete victory. American drones and spy planes have been more decisive in Mr. Duterte’s battle against Islamic militants than the rifles donated by China.
“The quantities of arms sent are not significant compared to the amount needed by the armed forces and the police,” said Roilo Golez, a former congressman. “Five thousand rifles are very minimal and token.”
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
“People are paying far more attention to China’s influence operations than I have seen before,” said Dan Blumenthal, director of Asian studies at the American Enterprise Institute.
But Beijing has also struggled to sway global opinion without resorting to heavy-handed methods or threats that can be counterproductive.
In Australia, which China has sought to use as a kind of pilot zone to test methods that could be adopted in the United States and Europe, Mr. Xi has already encountered a backlash.
China has encouraged Chinese businessmen to give to political campaigns, recruited Chinese students to press its policies in classrooms and mobilized local Chinese-language news media.
Mr. Xi receiving a Maori greeting during a 2014 visit to New Zealand. A Chinese official recently advised Chinese-language journalists there to coordinate coverage with state news media.
In a thinly disguised warning this month, Australia’s intelligence chief, Duncan Lewis, described such activities as “a threat to our sovereignty, the integrity of our national institutions and the exercise of our citizens’ rights.”
Analysts say Australia has been a tempting target because China is its biggest trading partner, and it is home to large populations of Chinese immigrants and students, who provide critical financial support to its universities.
But the government is now considering new limits on campaign contributions, restrictions on foreign investments and tougher counterintelligence laws. Australia is also seeking to strengthen security ties with India and Japan.
“The Chinese party-state has overplayed its hand in trying to influence Australia’s choices,” said Rory Medcalf, head of the national security college at the Australian National University.
Concern about political interference by China is also growing in New Zealand, where a Chinese official recently advised Chinese-language journalists to coordinate coverage with China’s official press.
Mr. Shi, the international relations professor, said President Trump’s “negative attitude toward liberal world trade and climate change” had emboldened Mr. Xi to take a more active role on the global stage.
But he added that China’s efforts to influence opinion and policy in other countries were a natural extension of its growing stature in the world, and not just a result of Mr. Xi’s leadership. He said China has greater “financial and human resources” available now — and greater ambitions.