If you are new, please read our posting guidelines and search the subreddit for commonly answered questions.      
Please post in English where possible. Chinese submissions should be accompanied by English translations and submitted with English titles as 99% of reddit users cannot read Chinese.
When linking to news articles, please use the original title, or a straightforward and accurate one of your own. Editorialized, provocative, inaccurate, sensationalist, and/or misleading titles may result in the removal of the post. If you add an opinion byline, please ensure that it is immediately clear which part is opinion.
Banks often serve large companies; they don’t have the ability to serve small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) well
What Manchu resources. Books, audiovisual foremost, but also curious about presential classes or tutors, if only for reference
They dress up and go to the different classrooms to trick or treat... which is basically 30 kids all screaming in unison "Trick or treat! Trick or treat! Trick or treat!" and god forbid you are the one doling out the candy. You seriously are risking injury from being crushed. Now I know why Kramer was so terrified after Karate class.
The worst is trying to run a haunted house for them. For some reason many of them can't seem to put 2 and 2 together that it's not real and will either flee so bad in terror that they injure themselves by running full speed into a cement wall, or will physically assault the teachers scaring them. I'm talking full force hitting as if their lives depend on it. Nobody wants haunted house duty.
It wasn't so much 4 years ago. Now, if you're in a high-tier place, you'll find people commonly have a party with a bit of dressing-up and such, mostly on campuses and bars.
But, I wouldn't risk it dressing up all ghoulish if you're out in the sticks, in my experience. Bit more hit-n-miss.
Bigger/higher tier cities yes, smaller/lower tier no. My town's supermarket does have a small display of Halloween items for sale (masks, hats, plastic pumpkins attached to strings with handles that look like they're supposed to be whipped around but who knows why) that have seemed to be selling a bit. But I asked around and it sounds like they don't celebrate it at all so I'm a little confused who's doing the buying and what for.  Not sure if I should be expecting an impromptu Purge...
I mean, you can, if you want Chinese people staring at you and asking you, "What the hell do you want, foreigner?"
170 years ago we wouldn't be knocking and we would demand silver and gold, and in return we give you opium.
Rendered by PID 22154 on  app-106  at 2017-10-27 08:59:32.152591+00:00 running 2c9616a country code: SG.