There’s no way around it: Donald Trump’s “Great America” is a “White America”. This is nothing new (for Trump or frankly, US history).
But with Trump’s ban on immigrants from largely Muslim countries, his obsession with a US-Mexico border wall, his inability to condemn white nationalists, his much vocalized belief that immigrants and people of color are violent, leeches, and “bad hombres”, and now the RAISE Act, it seems that the Trump administration is more determined than ever to dismantle any progress America has made, one immigrant at a time.
Senator Tom Cotton (R-AR) and Senator David Perdue (R-GA), the Reforming American Immigration for Strong Employment Act is a plan that would significantly decrease immigration within the next 10 years (by 50%), put a cap on the number of refugees “admitted annually”, and do away with the Diversity Immigrant Visa program or green card lottery. 
Immigrant and refugee families could be and will be ripped apart with entire families may be permanently alienated from each other. 
Instead of giving preference to family members, the RAISE Act would adopt a merit-based system in which points would be awarded to applicants depending on education, skills, and English fluency among others. Senator Cotton and Perdue, as well as President Trump, claim that such a system would thwart the influx of uneducated and unskilled people coming into America and taking American jobs. The intended result is to create more jobs for native-born citizens. 
Of course, this assumes that just because one is an immigrant and/or is sponsored by a family member that they are uneducated and/or unskilled. The RAISE Act smacks of the underlying belief that immigrants are by default a drain on the United States. 
But as with most things Trump says or does, the RAISE Act is not innovative, creative, or even original. American has done this before, from 1882 to 1943. 
Anti-Chinese sentiment was vehement. For Chinese people it was nearly impossible to find jobs outside of low-paying laundry or restaurant businesses. Even then, most Americans would note hire Chinese people, so most had to figure out a way to work for themselves in what would become America’s Chinatowns. Quite a feat considering that Chinese people were legally not allowed to own property. 
And though documented Chinese-American residents were largely sequestered off into Chinese enclaves, away from mainstream commerce, white Americans still considered them a threat. A threat to American jobs, American morals, and American prosperity. 
More so, the population of Chinese people living in America was disproportionately men. This is largely due to the Page Act of 1875 that strictly limited the amount of Chinese women allowed into America for fear that they were “undesirables” or a sex worker. The wife of a Chinese man living in America was given no preference (quite the opposite), and since there was no guarantee that a he would be allowed back in after he left the country, many Chinese families were forever kept apart. 
Combined with anti-miscegenation laws, keeping Chinese families separated was part of America’s thinly-veiled plan to eventually decimate the Chinese immigrant population in America. Though the plan never succeeded, entire families were splintered never to be reunited. 
For generations of Chinese immigrants, that was the price of the “American Dream”. If one person from a family was able to go to America, they had to accept the very real possibility that trying to build a better life – being able to send any money home, eventually being able to bring a son over – would likely come at the cost of being with one’s family. It was a matter of survival. 
In Chinatowns across America during the first part of the 20th century, Chinese-American men died alone or in the company of other alienated “bachelors” wondering what became of their families back home. 
Though the Chinese Exclusion Act was repealed in 1943, it wasn’t until the Immigration and Naturalization Act of 1965 when the limit of immigrants from China, and other countries, was lifted and many families could finally be reunited. Part of the goal of the Immigration and Naturalization Act was to reunite families as well as bring skilled workers to the United States. 
An American writer living in Japan, Louise is a contributor and researcher for the Order of the Good Death and Ask a Mortician. You can find her on Twitter @LouiseHung1.
An American writer living in Japan, Louise is a contributor and researcher for the Order of the Good Death and Ask a Mortician. You can find her on Twitter @LouiseHung1.
Nasser Ali Khasawneh graduated in law from Oxford University, and holds a Masters in Law (LL.M) degree from University College at the University of London. He is a lawyer and writer.
Natalia is a writer and journalist. She's the associate editor of openDemocracy Russia and the co-founder of the Anti-Nihilist Institute.
Sady Doyle is the founder of Tiger Beatdown. Her work has appeared at The Atlantic, The American Prospect, Comment Is Free, and all sorts of places, all over the Internet.
Please note our commenting policy: no trolling, no hate-speech, no abusive language. We reserve the right to ban you for misbehaviour.