If you are new, please read our posting guidelines and search the subreddit for commonly answered questions.      
Please post in English where possible. Chinese submissions should be accompanied by English translations and submitted with English titles as 99% of reddit users cannot read Chinese.
When linking to news articles, please use the original title, or a straightforward and accurate one of your own. Editorialized, provocative, inaccurate, sensationalist, and/or misleading titles may result in the removal of the post. If you add an opinion byline, please ensure that it is immediately clear which part is opinion.
Banks often serve large companies; they don’t have the ability to serve small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) well
What Manchu resources. Books, audiovisual foremost, but also curious about presential classes or tutors, if only for reference
Face is the most annoying aspect of dealing with Chinese, especially at the workplace. They know that they are wrong or that they made a mistake that will impact the entire office if it isn't fixed in time, and they have no idea how to fix it. But instead of asking for help they will try to hide the whole thing until it gets real bad. If you actually notice it and fix it for them, they will think "f*ck you for suggesting that I was wrong" and will hate you to death from then on. It's like dealing with 12 years-olds. You made a mistake, yes, it's not the end of the world, here I fixed it for you, your welcome, let's not talk about it anymore, have a nice day.
You know I'm wrong. I know you know I'm wrong. You know that I know that you know I'm wrong. But if you EVER tell me that I'm wrong, I will hate you until the day I die.
Where did it even originate? How did society survive until now with such an obvious roadblock to success?
Running the heater/ac and also having all the doors and windows open. FFS China's energy problem could be solved with just 1 small propaganda campaign.
Every time i've stayed with a family they simply never turn either on.  It's been 35-40C outside and everyone is just sitting inside sweating their butts off, refusing to turn on the AC.  Winter is the exact same, except they hide under blankets with space heaters rather than heating the whole house.  I had to sleep fully clothed to stay warm. 
I always try to maintain my home temperature at around 20C year round because it's most comfortable for me. Chinese people think that I'm crazy.
A lot of that has to do with shitty construction. Concrete block walls, which most Chinese homes/apartments are built of, are terrible for insulation, etc. Concrete block buildings in the West will usually have interior walls, with insulation between, but this doesn't seem common in China. 
Because of this method, the only HVAC they have are the single room units, which are inefficient as fuck, especially for heating. 
"Hey, let's put the heater in the upper corner of the room, next to the uninsulated window. Wow, it's cold in here."
Yeah, in China the walls are full concrete, there is no such thing as layers of insulating materials inside. Poor quality concrete on top of that, the type with air bubbles in it.
Watching any sort of construction activity in China is both entertaining as hell and also horrifying. No wonder the concrete is shit, a lot of it is hand-mixed by peasants using water full of random chemicals. That's cool if you're putting in a driveway, but they're building 6-story buildings like that!
Ho, every Spring Festival stay at my in-laws, dressed like for a polar expedition indoor and only one (cold) shower every 4 days.
Part of that is just the legacy of poverty and not wanting to waste electricity/fuel. I understand that. It's more the "not understanding thermodynamics" that enrages me.
first question is always, how much money ?  Get something new, discuss a gift, see new houses under construction, etc
I know it depends on the family but there are far far far more people obsessing on where their child's SO is from compared to back in the US where I'm from.
These days I don't go into any shops outside of big chains that I know won't hassle me, because I'm sick of being followed around by a woman breathing down my neck while I look for shit to buy. 
TCM obviously.  It should have been banned years ago, but there's too many rich fat cats already too far invested to give up their charade of fake science at this point.  It's disgusting how much money people are making off ignorant Chinese people who have been fooled into believing that shit works best.  Meanwhile the billionaire pharmaceutical owners are laughing all the way to the bank, and getting proper medical care in the West.
What's even more funny there's licensed TCM practitioners in western EU countries. Sometimes they're even reimbursed from health insurance. 
I'm not sure China can really become a very advanced and modern country if all this ancient superstitious nonsense is still allowed to thrive.
It sickens me that people cannot simply take complete responsibility for their lives; instead, they choose to rely on superstitions.
Not only is it utterly retarded to begin with, I don't want to breathe that shit either. Incense smoke is just as bad for you as cigarette smoke. 
I always thought it was cool that all the shops in Thailand had this going on. Thai gods love Strawberry Fanta. 
whats your deal with their religious practices of offering fruits to the dead? are you a jehova's witness or what?
And how do we know feng shui is to blame for your neighbours renovations? Nobody takes feng shui seriously anymore. Stop being petty.
My understanding is that there are a couple of practices which have shown to have some effect but for the most part are no more effective than a placebo.
Tu Youyou spent her entire life applying science to chinese medicine, and eventually found that Artemisium is a cheap cure for malaria, and got a nobel prize for her efforts. And cured me when i got malaria. 
To paraphrase Tim Minchin, we have a word for alternative therapies that are proven effective, "Medicine."
I think the thing to focus on regarding TCM is the underlying philosophy that drives its core concepts. This centrepiece of it is based on superstitious bullshit.
For example, I'm told the Chinese decided walnuts were good for the brain because they look like the brain. A mildly amusing coincidence for the scientific mind, but someone decided to do an analysis and found they contain omega-3's (which, the internet leads me to believe,are beneficial for the brain).
im on the medical field so i have first hand experience. i Also invite you to search some articles on any database. anyway this sub is full of idiots that think that because the snake oil they bought on the street didnt cure their idiocy and erectile dysfunction then all the TCM is useles.
You made the assertion, therefore it's up to you to back it up. Don't just hand-wave and then insult people.
I consulted a certified TCM practitioner in Zhejiang, Wenling when I lived there. I only went because my friend demanded it and I respect his opinion. He swore black and blue that this guy worked miracles.
I arrived, said nothing. The doctor "listened to my pulse" for about 3 or 4 minutes and then the guy asked a few questions about topics that anyone with a basic understanding of biology could've suggested by looking at me, then prescribed a brew. I followed his instructions to the letter and... nothing happened. I didn't get "better", I didn't get less better. So you could say that I'm a TCM patient and I have first hand experience, too.
Assuming that "being in the medical field" means something more interesting than being the accountant in a backwater GP's office, you'll find that:
Burden of proof is on the claimant. You claimed that TCM works. Please, show me. Reporting bias is actually in your favour. Studies with a negative result tend to disappear. If TCM therapies were consistently verifiable then there'd be papers galore, shouting it to the rooftops.
You're correct. Some therapies do work. I just had a quick look on EBSCO and found a few. That stands to reason since at the end of the day, chemicals are just chemicals. Whether you get them from a pill or a crushed-up leaf is not important. What's important is consistency of diagnosis, consistency of treatment and consistency of results. TCM does not have these. Further, there are such a broad range of therapies in TCM that a statement like "some treatments from TCM work" is useless and misleading.
Your statement was typically Chinese-vague. We in the west do not accept broad generalisations and appeals to authority. We will not be hushed by saying, "You think too much." I'm in the academic field so I also have first hand experience, in my case though, it's detecting academic fraud. Something that Chinese academics have, consistently, independently verifiably proven themselves to be very fond of.
So please, tell us which TCM therapies have been proven effective. I sincerely hope you can because the more effective alternatives we have to improve people's health, the better!
I guess he was referring to ursidinic acid (bear bile), ma huang and artemisinin against gall issues, lethargy/intra-operative drug and malaria, respectively. The poignant detail being, however, that whatever roots in TCM these things have, they then became just plain ol' "medicine" once they were confirmed to actually work. 
there are more 云南白药创可贴 for external hemorrages,  复方门冬维甘滴眼液 for conjuctivitis and 泻立停 for the old 拉肚子。 there are many kind of medications that actually do work. try the one for diarrea,its very good。so yeah, there are many kinds of chinese medicine that DO WORK and can be bought at pharmacies. im not familiar with many names but there are more examples. not only 'a few'. i'd say A LOT.
Right, you're talking about herbal remedies. Yes, there are plenty of those that  work because they're herbalism which is the precursor to modern medicine. Any TCM in a pill probably has some degree of consistency and effect. I used the local 拉肚子 pills several times myself :D
If you want to avoid getting downvoted to oblivion in future though, be more specific. TCM has such a broad range of therapies and, as I understand it, most are no better than placebo. 
You just started attacking people instead of citing scientific research like someone truly in the field would do.  Screw off
there are more 云南白药创可贴 for external hemorrages,  复方门冬维甘滴眼液 for conjuctivitis and 泻立停 for the old 拉肚子。 there are many kind of medications that actually do work. try the one for diarrea,its very good。so yeah, there are many kinds of chinese medicine that DO WORK and can be bought at pharmacies. im not familiar with many names but there are more examples. not only 'a few'. i'd say A LOT.
genxiongUnited States 1 point just now 
Tu Youyou spent her entire life applying science to chinese medicine, and eventually found that Artemisium is a cheap cure for malaria, and got a nobel prize for her efforts. And cured me when i got malaria.
Rendered by PID 7151 on  app-428  at 2017-10-27 09:03:41.216997+00:00 running 2c9616a country code: SG.