Author of 'The Chinese Invasion Threat' says PLA is being prepared for the invasion of Taiwan, at every level of organization.
The Chinese are not just creating plans alone, they are also preparing the forces they need to execute those plans. Early in January of 2016, they began a series of structural reforms of the People's Liberation Army (PLA), including the way it was organized and equipped. If you look at what they've done they are preparing the PLA for the invasion of Taiwan, at every level of organization.
They have new theater commands, new brigade structures in the army. It's very significant what they've done, taking apart the Soviet model and turning it into something that does not look like the American model at all, it's very distinctive and Chinese.
The reason I believe it is so distinctive is that it's tailor made for the invasion of Taiwan. This includes not just the army, but also the joint forces that they are planning to build up. They have done all the studies and they know that if they don't reform their military in a drastic way, they will never be ready for an invasion of Taiwan. 
These major reforms in the near term may actually weaken the Chinese military significantly, but in the longer term it's going to be worth it for them because it will give them the military they need to execute this plan that they have. 
I would say they are about 10 percent there. To build a joint force, it takes a very very long time. 
In the chapter of my book titled "Signs of Invasion," I list key indicators of invasion that would indicate to Taiwanese, Japanese, and American intelligence that the Chinese were preparing to invade Taiwan. You can tell well in advance when a country is preparing for a massive amphibious operation.
There are 5 categories of signs of invasion, and inside of each of those categories, there are 5 to 50 individual signs of invasion. So everything from readiness, including moving forces, activating reservists, activating militia forces, holding military exercises, and having planning conferences, to logistics, including preparing the fuel, ammunition, and with satellites seeing if Chinese amphibious ship-making factories go into high gear. If they are churning out thousands of small landing craft, that's one indication that they are planning to invade Taiwan. 
There's so many things they would do, including intelligence gathering, subversion, financial transactions, stockpiling, and propaganda work in China to get the people of China and the military psychologically ready for the attack. 
The chapter shows that while China could surprise Taiwan with a bolt out of the blue missile raid with 50 or 100 cruise missiles or ballistic missiles, China certainly could not surprise Taiwan with an invasion with hundreds of thousands or maybe a million or more troops prepared to float across the Taiwan Strait. Taiwan would start to see indications 90 days, minimum, in advance of the invasion.
For 60 days, it would be ambiguous, they would not be able to guarantee that China's true intention was invasion. But the last 30 days before the war started, it would become very clear with every hour that passed that China's intention was to do a minimal-warning invasion. Of course, the Chinese would engage in lots of acts of deception, but there's no way they could trick Taiwanese intelligence and American intelligence, and the book talks about why that is. 
It would be very different from Normandy because that was a completely different situation and very different time. There were no satellites back then of course, there were no cyber hackers at that time, and the defending side did not have an anti-ship cruise missile.
Once war starts and the Chinese start marshalling their amphibious brigades across from Taiwan and loading aboard ships, Taiwan at any moment can launch all of its cruise missiles on those port facilities and amphibious staging areas and actually hit the attacker at the origin of attack and then keep hitting them as they move all the way across the Taiwan Strait. And that's very different, we've never seen that in the history of warfare.
We've never seen this type of technology being used. We know it exists now, we see it at military parades and military exercises, but we've never actually seen what a modern war would look like because, thankfully, a modern war has never been fought before. There's never been a massive conventional war with these types of technologies employed. 
There's a large PLA studies community in Taiwan and a very large one in Washington D.C., and I'm part of that community. There are channels that we use to get these types of materials from China.
For example, they smuggle books, newspapers, and magazines, and so I went to all the same places as others in my community go to. The Taiwanese research community, especially the military has exhaustively studied the threat facing Taiwan. They know the PLA inside and out.
Most people don't appreciate how good their research is because most people can't read the traditional characters that they use and most people are not familiar with the jargon that they use. 
Ian holds an M.A. in China Studies from National Chengchi University in Taiwan and a B.A. in International Studies from the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign. He also holds a certification in advanced Mandarin Chinese, having formally studied the language at Fudan University in Shanghai, and National Taiwan Normal University in Taipei.