For Xie Yanyi it was not the physical abuse that was the hardest to endure - although his list of the deliberate cruelties inflicted upon him is long.
He was kept in a stress position, crouched on a low stool, from 06:00 in the morning until 22:00 at night.
At times he was denied food and was subjected to gruelling interrogations for "dozens of hours" on end.
And he was watched while he slept, with his guards insisting that he kept the same sleeping position all night.
"I was kept alone in a small room and saw no daylight for half a year. I had nothing to read, nothing to do but to sit on that low stool."
"People could go mad in that situation. I was isolated from the world. This is torture - the isolation is more painful than being beaten."
Although impossible to verify, his account tallies with other reports of the suffering endured under the so-called "war on law", launched during the Chinese Leader Xi Jinping's first five years in office.
"But I feel it's my responsibility to speak out. I have no choice. I can't accept a society that arrests people for what they think and what they say."
The crackdown on China's already beleaguered human rights field began in mid 2015, halfway through Xi Jinping's first term.
Now, anointed in office for a second term by the Communist Party Congress that ended this week, it stands as one of his most gloomy legacies. 
In total, more than 300 lawyers, legal assistants and activists have been brought in for questioning, with more than two dozen pursued as formal investigations.

                    Lawyer Wang Quanzhang hasn't been seen or heard from since 2015
                
He was also a bold advocate for peaceful democratic reform, once having filed a lawsuit against the former Chinese Leader Jiang Zemin for refusing to step down from the Central Military Commission at the end of his presidency.
Issued by an office close to the senior Communist Party leadership, the list of forbidden ideologies included "Western constitutional democracy", "universal values" and "civil society". 
For decades, the mantra in the West was that ever increasing trade with China would bring political reform in its wake.
"Economic freedom creates the habits of liberty," former US President George W Bush once said in a speech on the subject of engagement with China.
It would be a brave academic, journalist or lawyer who would put their signature to such a manifesto today.
As China grows in power, influence and confidence, it is determined to do so without any of the political freedoms that conventional wisdom had once thought of as a prerequisite to becoming a world leading, prosperous economy.
The message sent to 1.4 billion citizens has been clear: think very carefully before daring to challenge the authority of the Communist Party, even in the country's own, Communist Party-run courts.
Shortly after we recorded our interview with him in late August, he was visited by the authorities and warned again.
This time it was more specific: don't do anything that might upset the preparations for Communism's largest and most sacrosanct political gathering.
Out of concern for his safety we agreed to a delay and have waited until after the Party Congress to publish this story.
Even the recording itself - as viewers of the video on this page will see - was overshadowed by an ominous presence - a group of around a dozen men who surrounded Mr Xie's apartment.
As we watched them out of the window, I asked him if, as a father with three children, it might be better for him to keep a low profile and to stay quiet for a bit?
"I am always quiet," came the reply. "My family is kind to everyone. We are always sensible and peaceful."
"We are lawful citizens. We are using our lawful rights. We hope all people can live with dignity, respect each other and abide by the rule of law."
As the BBC team left, the men surrounded our car, banging on the window and angrily demanding we open the doors.
It's a luxury that Xi Jinping's government does not afford to human rights lawyers and their families.
As Xi Jinping consolidates his hold on power, the BBC gets a rare first hand account of his 'war on law'.