If you are new, please read our posting guidelines and search the subreddit for commonly answered questions.      
Please post in English where possible. Chinese submissions should be accompanied by English translations and submitted with English titles as 99% of reddit users cannot read Chinese.
When linking to news articles, please use the original title, or a straightforward and accurate one of your own. Editorialized, provocative, inaccurate, sensationalist, and/or misleading titles may result in the removal of the post. If you add an opinion byline, please ensure that it is immediately clear which part is opinion.
Banks often serve large companies; they don’t have the ability to serve small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) well
What Manchu resources. Books, audiovisual foremost, but also curious about presential classes or tutors, if only for reference
Xi now has 4 out of 7 votes in the politburo standing committee, and at least 15 out of 25 votes in the politburo. 
For China?  Well, it's a shame that people don't get the same freedoms that we take for granted in the West, but, really, I'm running out of fucks to give.  Enjoy your benevolent dictator, if that's what you really want.
Pisc, wasn't this supposed to be the big reveal plot twist where he showed he was secretly a democrat?
Kind of scared, but also so pleased I got the fuck out of that place, and sad for my Chinese friends that he is going to lead their country to disaster. Sad that my intelligent friends have had their VPNs cut off and are prevented from flourishing.
Pisc, wasn't this supposed to be the big reveal plot twist where he showed he was secretly a democrat?
the big reveal is that he's a competent but boring technocrat running the country in a way that most people there accept as legitimate. It would be unusual historically and materially for a country at China's level of development to have a liberal government. What's happening in xinjiang is awful, he's done a good job keeping any disasters from happening, his foreign policy has been restrained and reasonable, real growths been moderate and steady. Mixed bag overall and certainly a deal most people in the world would take.
If china gets much richer and America keeps getting grubbier it's a deal more and more Americans will be willing to take too
In fact it's a strategy. hes specifically holding back because trump is fucking up so bad and china looks so good in comparison. Chinese influence in Southeast Asia and the un has never been higher
building and militarising fake islands, starting fresh border disputes etc etc etc is holding back? interesting
They have been specifically deescalating there since trump was elected, after escalating it before the election. No big moves, improving relations with Japan and Philippines, compromising with Vietnam over the drilling issue that looked like it might blow up. There's been less coverage in domestic media too.
They are backtracking now because the aggressive foreign policy was a disaster and created a Japan-India-Vietnam anti-China axis, and India started standing up to them.
But they will not win trust back so easily just by announcing they want to improve relations with Japan and India. 
http://www.philstar.com/headlines/2017/03/19/1682667/duterte-panatag-we-cannot-stop-china-doing-its-thing
“We cannot stop China from doing its thing. Hindi nga napara ng Amerikano ,” Duterte said in his departure speech before his Myanmar visit.
Duterte recalled that former Foreign Affairs Secretary Perfecto Yasay already asked him what to do about Beijing’s move to build facilities in the disputed sea. He said he can declare war to counter it, but the country will lose more than just the claim of sovereignty over parts of the disputed area that Manila claims.
“What do you want me to do? Sir… ano ba’ng gawin ko? Declare war against China? I can, but we’ll lose all our military and policemen tomorrow and we are a destroyed nation,” Duterte said.
Reactionaries reject this conservative outlook. They are, in their way, just as radical as revolutionaries and just as destructive. Reactionary stories always begin with a happy, well-ordered state where people willingly shared a common destiny. Then alien ideas promoted by intellectuals and outsiders — writers, journalists, professors, foreigners — undermined that harmony. (The betrayal of elites is central to every reactionary myth.)
What does xi look backwards to as a reactionary? Certainly not mao or dengs china. Probably not imperial china or if so only in the most superficial way.
Reactionary stories always begin with a happy, well-ordered state where people willingly shared a common destiny. Then alien ideas promoted by intellectuals and outsiders — writers, journalists, professors, foreigners — undermined that harmony.
He wants to make China Great Again.  The fact that the idealized past never actually existed doesn't much matter to reactionaries.
Is that strange that he wants to make china great again? Does it necessarily make him reactionary? Does he actually nakedly appeal to that or is he more nuanced about it than actual reactionaries like trump?
Those 'alien ideas promoted by writers journalists professors foreigners' never actually had a place in historical Chinese societies so I don't agree that his position on them is backwards-looking, its status quo if anything, and he's certainly more progressive on things like press freedom or the right to travel or own property than mao or the Qing.
China's relatively open, extremely open by historical Chinese standards. It's at worst regular farmer xenophobic in contrast to the actual racially based xenophobia of even contemporary Japan and Korea. His economic programs basically neoliberal.
The aspects of his program that could be described as reactionary in the backwards looking sense, policy for women and national minorities, are mostly a secondary concern to people complaining about red flags and protectionism and tyrannical anti corruption campaigns and party meetings and xi jinping thought or whatever. Weird.
That's a central element to a characteristically reactionary narrative.  There is also an insurgent element to a reactionary, while Xi comes firmly from the establishment.  I mean, Trump at least has his own internet version of brownshirts in the alt-right, and comes from outside of the American conservative establishment - he fits reactionary better.
Before Japan could modernize it had to do something about the samurai. German unification involved mediatisation of the noble houses. France just denogginized all the aristos.
In this framework he's a modernizer or a reformer, not sure that's compatible with being a reactionary 
Bismarck was a revolutionary? British liberals didn't tear shit down with enclosure in England, genocide in the Scottish highlands, and engineered free market famines in Ireland and India?
I think liberalism might just be when it's a bank doing the demographic crimes and the tearing downs and whatnot
Interesting perspective.  I'm guessing it can be argued that those were either reactionary or revolutionary.  Lessee.
https://www.marxists.org/history/international/comintern/sections/britain/periodicals/labour_monthly/1943/10/famine-india.htm
Layne's law of debate states that: A) every debate is over the definition of a word, B) every debate eventually degenerates into debating the definition of a word, or C) once a debate degenerates into debating the definition of a word, the debate is debatably over. 
So, sure, I guess you can argue that centrists still tear shit down for, uh, pragmatic reasons.  That can happen.
The article only provides Trump and Brexit demagoguery as examples of a global trend.  One could just as easily say that this is the age of nationalist authoritarianism using the exact same dataset.
Then again, here in the US, anything left of center is considered communist and right of center considered fascist.  Don't trust Americans to have perspective on this issue.
One could just as easily say that this is the age of nationalist authoritarianism using the exact same dataset.
We're just talking far right and far left here.  Either can be authoritarian, or not (up/down on the Nolan chart).
Hold up.  I'm talking about an alternative explanation for what the NYTimes article calls age of reactionary.  Ie a preference for nationalist authoritarian politics, and how that explanation undermines the premise of the article (assuming classical definition of the word reactionary).  Nothing at all to do with progressives.
http://nymag.com/daily/intelligencer/2017/04/andrew-sullivan-why-the-reactionary-right-must-be-taken-seriously.html
We are living in an era of populism and demagoguery. And yes, there’s racism and xenophobia mixed into it. But what we are also seeing, it seems to me, is the manifest return of a distinctive political and intellectual tendency with deep roots: reactionism.
Are you familiar with the Dictator's Handbook by Bruce Bueno de Mesquita?  It's very helpful in identifying actual populists (early Mao) from people who use populist rhetoric to build popular support for the establishment (Japan, Turkey, US).
I think the key difference between the former and latter here is power.  Establishment, by default, is conservative.  Reactionaries are conservatives who are outside of the current coalition in power and crucially, who benefit from disruption of the current order.  Guys like Farange, Trump, Netanyahu, Erdogan (all of the examples the article gives of reactionaries in power) have nothing to gain from the status quo changing, and everything to lose.  They use the frustration of conservatives who are powerless or poor to their political advantage.
Huh, makes sense.  Cynical use of reactionary rhetoric. Just like cynical use of progressive rhetoric by centrist democrats. 
Erdogan is absolutely revisionist in like ten different ways so I don't think what you're saying is true. Farange also with brexit. Netanyahu with the demographic crimes. Even trump with health care. Not seeing any of those as particularly status quo leaders although some are more revisionist than others
https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Horseshoe_theory#/media/File%3APolitical_spectrum_horseshoe_model.svg
Most works done by Hu Yaobang and Zhao Ziyan, Deng give his major approval to main principles such as remove Party Group from bureaucratic organizations.
The succession rules is Deng's last-ditch effort about this, about how to make the Party more stability as a huge organization,more toward fix than reform, lesser ideologies  too.
For years now you have been able to pretend that all the shit going on isn't Xi's reponsibility. Kidnapped booksellers? Not Xi's doing, must be his enemies trying to make China look like a dictatorship, right?
So, I for one am ecstatic. No more lies about how Xi isn't responsible! From now on he owns all the actions of the Chinese government
As long as there are hostile foreign forces to scapegoat for all China's problems?  Nope, no need to take responsibility.
You know Caesar was assassinated even though he basically had power of life and death over every single Roman, right?
The American capitalists keep the Chinese people down. Xi seems to be trying to bring China towards a brighter socialist future. 
Power tends to corrupt; absolute power corrupts absolutely. History shows total power is a bad thing, whether that's in the west or in the east.
I'm not happy about the direction he wants to take things, but I'm hoping on the bright side that he'll at least feel a bit more secure and can chill out a bit. Wishful thinking, I know
He has one last person to get rid of, Jiang ZeMin. Interesting how he internally appointed him and become enemies.
Get out of China if you are scared, take your wife and kids if you are scared, alternatively shit post on reddit
accidentally, of course, as they originally intended to go to America, but didn't know any cities with limited English, so just chose the city that sounded most like "Shiny"
Hey. It's only a rumour that Welshies fuck sheep. Not one single sheep has actually filed a suit in a court of law.
B) The kind of dictatorship he's created can effectively insulate him from the realities in the world and dissent of all sorts while his sycophants indulge in him every delusion and paranoia. That's how you become full Mao.
And there are a lot of problems building up in China - economic, demographic, financial, environmental. This is why he is clamping down. Things can get much worse.
I think China will continue to grow until these problems can't be owned by China any more, but become shared. The West has enabled this though, so they can't really bitch too much about what happens next
Nah. But he may well get assassinated tho. No successor in an totalitarian regime is a recipe for instability. 
I'm in a great mood. China is finally going to move back towards Marxism. Perhaps it can finally make with the socialism and ideally start spreading its influence. Little god damn funding for us Cascadian Communists would be nice.
I don't know if you are being sarcastic, but it is actually more like reversing the positives achieved by the Maoist era and reverting back to elitist ideologies like Confucianism. Xi is as Marxist as the Saudi Royal family.
https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/60/Maslow's_Hierarchy_of_Needs.svg/600px-Maslow's_Hierarchy_of_Needs.svg.png
Self actualisation... Hmm. What makes you think a majority aren't content with being part of a rising power etc? It's like a football team and a religion rolled into one.
Well.  I guess what you are arguing is that "self-actualization" is too individualistic; that group-actualization (or whatever) can be just as good.
The needs and drives of those in individualistic societies tend to be more self-centered than those in collectivist societies, focusing on improvement of the self, with self-actualization being the apex of self-improvement. In collectivist societies, the needs of acceptance and community will outweigh the needs for freedom and individuality.
I'd argue that the West used to be collectivist, too (hell, every society was).  And we largely outgrew it (to a point -- we still have our football teams and religions, and our reactionaries that want to return to the warm embrace of tribalism, of course).
Group-based esteem is all well and good, but individual self-actualization is the more enlightened way to go.
My pet theory is almost all of the rulers in the long annals of Chinese History has found Confucianism useful mainly as a form of population control -- it enforced a moral standard on the populace that somehow always exempted the ruler and created this path of absurdly high bar for self-actualization that discouraged large segment of people from getting into politics.
"How dare you try to start a revolution when you can't even keep your room clean/get into a university/find a wife/etc!!"
Gosh, I had plenty of babyboomers spit out that cliche at me in the last ten years, even my mom whenever I head out for a protest. A lot of reasonable educated people I have met seem to swallow that line of about 修身齊家治國平天下 as a reason to not get involved in politics (while they work 9 to 9 for "self-actualization" ha-ha). Even the 于丹's bestsellers seem to carry the same underlying message: "Self-improvement? OK. Changing the country? BAD."
Looking back at history, is it any wonder that it's always the barbarians or some uneducated butcher, or some village teacher that conquered the throne? They didn't drink the Confucian Kool-aid of "I don't think I'm good enough to run this country" like the literati class did.
Looking back at history, is it any wonder that it's always the barbarians or some uneducated butcher, or some village teacher that conquered the throne? They didn't drink the Confucian Kool-aid of "I don't think I'm good enough to run this country" like the literati class did.  
Du Dreckiger Hund, erbärmlicher Annamesischer, Du solltest zurück geschickt werden wo deine ekelhafte Art herkommt.
Es ist unglaublich das Amerika, Kanada, Australien etc. solche schmutzige, ekelhafte Lebewesen wie dich aufnimmt.
Vorgeben Flüchtlinge zu sein war der einzigste Weg den ihr hattet.
Diese Länder sollten dich zurücklassen das du an Hunger stirbst oder von Piraten umgebracht warden.
I think people are falsely claiming this system is doomed to fail based on past authoritarian regimes, which seems like either risky extrapolation or blind faith in "democracy and freedom" or whatever. 
Any Chinese person who's chanced a reflection knows the government kills people for protesting and has also brought dramatic development to many areas. Someone from Shanghai or whatever has seen this in their lifetime that I don't think people in the West have, in the same way (the development hasn't been so extreme). 
Also, the notion that it's doomed to fail etc. I'd say China are in a much better position to integrate AI into their governmental proceedings. Who gives a shit if your dictated to by a"non corrupt" robot or some dude? People probably wouldn't give a shit as long as the RMB keeps going. 
So this is a rambling post, but I think the idea that the Chinese system is doomed to fail is just daft. Maybe  they'll have a semi AI based government , have converted NK and less prosperous nations into their factories (because that's still an improvement, and better than what the West did right?) and applied crispr to a whole province in thirty years or so.  
People who are past caring about the bottom tiers of the pyramid?  I thought that was what we were talking about.  
Yeah, it seems shit... I'm a fan of free speech and discourse and all the rest. But what I don't think is that it's necessary, or that it's the only way a society can "do well". I think a society can be stable without these. 
I'm suggesting that if one just cares about having stability and security, Freedom of speech etc aren't that big of a factor.
Basically, once a society matures past despotism?  Despotism is no longer a valid form of government.  
I am rather torn by your statements here. In my mind being able to speak truth to power absolutely necessary. I would say that a society can survive with stability and security but not thrive or even truly live. I appreciate your point of view.
Re thrive, I'm not sure what society has or does or will. I would say that China has been thriving , if anyone has. But I expect someone's going to bake freedom of speech into thriving, which I wouldn't. 
Also there are more dimensions going forward, the internet and technology are going to change things, if one wouldn't say they have already. 
Technology improving is the one consistent thread really. And China seems like they're in a better position to continue it. I don't think ethics are going to restrict their research on the same way. 
I dare say the AI would be weighted. My point is that once you've fully submitted, why bother drawing a line there? 
Most people in democratic countries have jobs and feel safe. That is why democracy developed, after people have these needs met they start demanding a stake in a society, cultural freedom, and room to self-actualize. It is not a coincidence that rich countries are democratic.
If you want to retard your society's social moral and cultural development, be my guest, but don't imagine your country will get any respect whatsoever. All your top talent will come to the West anyway.
That is why democracy developed, after people have these needs met they start demanding a stake in a society, cultural freedom, and room to self-actualize.
Not trying to be an ass, but some really shitty countries are democratic as well and vice versa. Wouldn't really say development of a country and democracy have any strong correlation. 
There actually isn't. I could give you plenty of examples of countries that are a democracy but are hugely undeveloped (i.e. India, Malaysia, Philippines), and countries that aren't but are doing quite well (i.e. Singapore, Saudi Arabia, UAE). So no, development of a country and democracy are not correlated. 
There are exceptions - countries like India and Phillipines inherited a political system from colonial powers, and places like UAE, Saudi are rich on oil wealth alone. Singapore, like Hong Kong, is a city state that gets rich due to a strategic location for world shipping routes. Malaysia, is actually quite wealthy.
It's not a perfect fit - Mid East and North Africa are richer than sub Saharan Africa - but there is definitely a correlation.
Uruguay (third richest in Latin America after Chile and Argentina, who are also amongst the highest ranked in Latin America)
Are we talking about development, or wealth of a country?
More importantly, if you are just going to deem non correlations as exceptions, then you're just choosing what you want to see
It means there is a pattern or relationship. It does not mean every democracy is rich or every rich country is a democracy. It means if you charted a graph with democracy on the y axis and human development on the x axis you would see an upwards curve.
Sure, but do not also know that correlation does not equal causation?
This is also why the correlation is so weak. 
Second of all, now you're using the term human development. This is different from whether a country is developed, or if the country is "rich".
The French Revolution was lead by relatively privileged folk, poorer people may have joined it but it ain't called a bourgeois revolution for nothing. Peasant revolts have always been around, but it was only when a middle class emerged that their revolts started to change society in a serious way.
The trade union movement was always lead by the "skilled workers" too. This wretched of the earth idea has always been useful for propaganda in societies with Christian morality, but it has always been the better off ones of the oppressed classes who have taken the lead. Same today, people who go on protests are often relatively educated and comfortable, unions tend to be stronger in educated professions.
The French Revolution was lead by relatively privileged folk, poorer people may have joined it but it ain't called a bourgeois revolution for nothing. Peasant revolts have always been around, but it was only when a middle class emerged that their revolts started to change society in a serious way.
The people who undid that revolution and went gaga for Napoleon were also relatively privileged folks. Who put Louis Philippe and then Louis Napoleon back on the throne?
Class and wealth isn't the ultimate indicator of which side of the revolution one person ends up on. The so-called bourgeoisie are probably more fickle and diverse than your ridiculously flawed and narrow Marxist worldview allows which you probably casually picked up from your high school history textbook and imbibed as "historical fact".
Look around the world and see how many authoritarian regimes are embraced and enabled by their middle class countrymen if you don't believe me.
Sure, if you want to make that distinction. It's about as useful as saying the kulaks weren't really peasants.
This wretched of the earth idea has always been useful for propaganda in societies with Christian morality, but it has always been the better off ones of the oppressed classes who have taken the lead. Same today, people who go on protests are often relatively educated and comfortable, unions tend to be stronger in educated professions.
I have read Marx but I do not agree with an overly simplistic reading of class, so I don't know where I have a "ridiculously flawed and narrow Marxist worldview." If anything my point was against Marxist orthodoxy. You're the one talking in blanket terms about middle class support for authoritarian regimes, as if middle class is an identifiable and homogenous thing.
Poorer people may and did join, but you having read EP Thompson doesn't change that the rise of an intellectual middle class was what made the French Revolution and English Civil War more than mere peasant uprisings. That some were also reactionary doesn't cancel it out. And we are talking about Mazlow's hierarchy, not class - my point was that labour movements gained traction most amongst those sections of the working class that were better off, and not concerned so much with immediate survival. The unions were started by skilled labourers, not by the poorest workers.
And I didn't get Marx from high school, I got it from the Durham Miners Gala. If you read EP Thompson you will understand what that is.
I have been on many protests and I come from a family with a history of union activity. And I'm telling you, the active people are never the most downtrodden. Real poverty has a depoliticising effect.
Democracy in the West was not achieved with one single revolution but rather developed over a long period of time. As Europe got richer after the renaissance, a class of people aside from the Church and Aristocratic landowners were able to rise up the hierarchy of needs, leading to new demands and conflicts. There was some allying with poorer classes when it suited their purposes, and allying with richer classes when it got out of hand. The struggle gave birth to a limited democracy based on compromise, first between aristocracy and men of property, but by the 20th Century, working men were strong enough and smart enough to stake their claims too. Their interests were fought for not by the poorest of their ranks, but generally by the ones who were better off and higher up the hierarchy of needs. Keir Hardie, founder of the Labour Party, was a miner but a skilled one and certainly no illiterate like most miners were at that time. That is an important distinction to make.
Poverty can create rioting, but it cannot by itself create a sustainable political challenge or expansion of rights. The correlation between prosperity and democracy is real. This isn't just because of a "middle class" but because of a greater portion of society, including working class, being capable of demanding rights and defending their interests.
The problem here is using maslow to explain history. Maslow cant even be used for psychology, using it to explain democracy is really funny.
Other problem was that democracy is present in most countries, rich or not, but now you are limiting yourself to the west.
But mainly my issue with the post is that you are thinking that one can "ascend" in the scale of needs, and that the fight for democracy was for things like "self-actualization". Because the fight for political freedom was in fact closely related to the fight for economic freedom (lets not forget the french were the first to speak of laissez faire). The division there is artificial and abstract (like maslow's theory).
Also, correlation doesn't imply causation, even more in this case where we can find easily examples that contradict this rule.
The main conclusion here is that you cannot study history with a simplistic model like Maslow's. 
It's your initial comment, "It is not a coincidence that rich countries are democratic" that's dumb dumb. 
Historically I think this was true, as without feeling freedoms people were likely to revolt etc... But how do people organise and protest in China? I don't think it's realistic.
So I don't really see any reason things won't work. Scared of talent leaving? Provide benefits to those people to make them happy. Money etc. 
If you look up popular revolts in the last two centuries, you would find that's not even close to being true.
They managed it many times in past history. I know PLA has many fancy new toys nowadays but I don't think they've lost their ability to recognize when a tide is turning.
Which is a problem for both democracies and non-democracies, there's only so much of the pie to spread around.
Rendered by PID 88832 on  app-250  at 2017-10-27 08:56:30.269831+00:00 running 2c9616a country code: SG.