Oct.15, 2017, after 4 days thrilling competition, V OF WAR e-sports competition, held by Ninedvr(Black Shark Studio) eventually entered the finals in the last day of China (GuangDong) International “Internet +” expo. After a day of fierce and brilliant game, champion finally won by ‘3DQ’, who also be called as VR gun master.
Since the spring 2017, taking the FPS VR game V OF WAR as carrier, Ninedvr has successfully hosted multiple VR e-sports competitions. Taking the strategy of rolling out to the whole nation then expanding the overseas, VR e-sports would spread rapidly and become a 
                                                                                                      popular entertainment.
Some people say, the year of VR is the past. The VR industry faces an opportunity, also a challenge. Not the same as the popularity of smart phones which has led to the development of mobile game, expensive VR devices have become a stumbling block for VR gaming. Game companies is facing huge problems in the coming years. Scarce VR users, no premium channels and business cashing out system, in such these circumstances, Despite good contents VR industry is still under a difficult situation. 
The development of e-sports is more mature than VR.  Although it has experienced ups and downs, but currently it has get a big boost,as we all know, e-sports even received the recognition by the national competitive sports. In the background of this times, VR e-sport starts to come into being. By finding  an e-sport game content which is most suitable for the market, and then integrate it with the best VR equipment, then put it into the offline store experience through the offline VR e-sports club, , so that players can experience vr game with low cost. Thus, not only solve the equipment shortages, but also gain popularity of VR games. As a result, the game developers will naturally increase focus on their content, and the VR game will naturally emerge from the dilemma and usher in another outbreak.
In such an environment, there are 3 reason can explain why V OF WAR can stand out from the crowd? Firstly, V OF WAR is developed by Black Shark Studio from NinedVR, which is the most influential virtual reality 
technology R&D and application development company in China that can easily solve the insufficiency of hardware facilities which is the common problem that gaming company would encounter during game development.  Secondly, the cross-platform game mechanics allows VR and PC users play game in the same server. This revolutionary design can solve problem of VR user shortages to some extent. Alternatively, PC and VR users would play different roles in the game, and we are seeking to get the best experience of both by optimal mechanic design.For example, in ideal situation, VR users shall be mostly using mecha skills, while PC users would be masters of weapons. Thirdly, as a high quality FPS game, V OF WAR successfully keeps players stay and enjoy the game but not gets fed up with playing once or twice. 
If you are game publisher or internet bar owner who are interested in V OF WAR e-sport, please feel free to contact us via